OWNER'S HANDBOOK
 
 
CITROEN C4 CACTUS
MyCITROEN
You can find your handbook on the CITROEN website, under "MyCITROEN".
This personal and customisable space allows you to establish direct and special contact with CITROEN.
If the "MyCITROEN" function is not available on the CITROEN public website for your country, you can find your handbook at the following address:
http://service.citroen.com/ddb/
On-line owner's handbook
 
Referring to the owner's handbook on-line also gives you access to the latest information available, easily identified by the bookmark, associated with this symbol:
Select:
> the language,
> the vehicle, its body style,
> the print edition of your handbook appropriate for the date of registration of your vehicle.
You have access to your handbook on line, together with the latest o information, identified by the symbol:
7
336
r CN o> CN
348.9 348.9
348.9
We draw your attention to the following...
The "Familiarisation" section at the start of this document is intended as a quick way of getting to know your vehicle. Reading the detailed sections is essential to make the most of your vehicle, in complete safety.
Your vehicle is fitted with only some of the equipment described in this document, depending on the trim level, version and the
specifications for the country in which it is sold.
The fitting of electrical equipment or accessories which are not recommended by CITROEN may result in a failure of your vehicle's electronic system. Please note this specific warning and contact a CITROEN dealer for information on the recommended equipment and accessories.
Key
) safety warning i additional information
Si contributes to the protection of the environment
© refer to the page indicated
810.1
810.1
810.1
CITROEN has a presence on every continent,
a complete product range,
bringing together technology and a permanent spirit of innovation, for a modern and creative approach to mobility.
We thank you and congratulate you on your choice.
At the wheel of your new vehicle, getting to Know each system, each control, each setting, makes your trips, your journeys
more comfortable and more enjoyable.
Happy motoring!
Contents
| ce DD eee Familiarisation
Eco-driving a= UNN Monitoring 1 Instrument panel 20 Indicator and warning lamps 21 Indicators 33 7-inch touch screen tablet 37 Trip computer 43 Distance recorders 45 Setting the date and time 46
Access
Remote control key
Central locking
Doors
Boot
Front electric window controls Rear door windows
Comfort
Front seats
Rear seats
Mirrors
Steering wheel adjustment Ventilation
Heating
Manual air conditioning Automatic air conditioning Front Demist - Defrost
Rear screen demist - defrost
Fittings
Interior fittings Boot fittings
47 51 52 54 55 56
3
57 60 62 64 65 67 69 71 75 76
4
77 83
 
Starting - Stopping the engine Parking brake
5-speed manual gearbox Gear shift indicator Electronic gearbox
Hill start assist
Stop & Start
Speed limiter
Cruise control Memorising speeds Parking sensors Reversing camera
Park Assist
Lighting control Automatic illumination of headlamps
Daytime running lamps /Sidelamps (LEDs)
Headlamp adjustment
Cornering lighting
Wiper control stalk
Automatic rain sensitive wipers Panoramic sunroof
Courtesy lamp
Brightness of instruments and controls Boot lamp
Driving 5
86 87 88 89 90 94 95 98 101 104 105 107 108
Visibility 6
113 117 118 120 121 122 124 126 127 128 128
Direction indicators
Hazard warning lamps
Horn
Emergency or assistance call Tyre under-inflation detection ESC system
Seat belts
Airbags
Child seats
Deactivating the passenger's front airbag
ISOFIX child seats i-Size child seats Child lock
Safety 7
129 129 130 130 131 134 137 140
Child safety 8
146
149 155 158 160
 
Practical information
Fuel tank Misfuel prevention (Diesel) Running out of fuel (Diesel)
AdBlue® additive and SCR system (Blue HDi Diesel)
Temporary puncture repair kit Changing a wheel
Snow chains
Changing a bulb Changing a fuse
12 V battery
Energy economy mode Changing a wiper blade Towing
Towing a trailer
Roof bars
Very cold climate screens AIRBUMP® protectors Accessories
Bonnet
Petrol engines Diesel engines Checking levels Checks
9
161 163 165
166 174 181 187 188 196 203 207 208 209 211 213 215 216 217
Checks 10
220 221 222 223 226
Contents
 
Technical data
Petrol engines
Petrol weights
Diesel engines
Diesel weights Dimensions Identification markings
Audio and telematics
Emergency or assistance Touch screen tablet
FP DD eee Visual search
Alphabetical index
il
228 229 230 231 232 233
235 237
Familiarisation
Exterior
 
Under-inflation detection
This system monitors the pressures in the tyres and alerts you in the event of an under-inflated tyre.
© 131
Cornering lighting
At low speed, this additional lighting increases the driver's field of vision in corners, junctions, when parking... by switching on the corresponding front foglamp.
Q 121
_ Stop & Start
This system puts the engine temporarily into standby during stops in the traffic (traffic
lights, traffic jams, etc...). The engine restarts automatically as soon as you want to move
off. The Stop & Start system reduces fuel consumption and exhaust emissions, as well as noise levels when stationary.
©) 95
~~ Automatic illumination of
headlamps
The number plate lamps, sidelamps and dipped beam headlamps come on automatically without any action by the driver when a low level of ambient light is detected.
Q 117
 
Familiarisation E
Exterior
Temporary puncture | AIRBUMP® protectors
repair kit / These protect the body by reducing the effect of minor impacts experienced in everyday use
This kit is a complete system, consisting of a (parking knocks, opening a door, scrapes, ...).
compressor and a sealant cartridge, for the temporary repair of a tyre.
Q174
 
Reversing camera Parking sensors Park Assist
This system is activated automatically on This system detects and warns you of the This system provides active assistance when engaging reverse and provides an image in the presence obstacles in front of and behind the parallel parking, both entering and exiting a the touch screen tablet. vehicle when manoeuvring the vehicle. space. It detects a parking space, operates
the vehicle's steering and provides visual and audible signals to the driver.
Q107 © 105 © 108
Familiarisation
Access Remote control key
 
A. Unfolding / Folding the key.
Locking the vehicle (direction indicators on fixed).
=< Unlocking the boot. © 47
Unlocking the vehicle (rapid flashing of the direction indicators).
Fuel tank
 
1. Opening the filler flap. 2. Removing the filler cap.
3. Hooking the filler cap. Petrol: approximately 50 litres, Diesel:
approximately 45 or 50 litres (depending version).
€) 161
Bonnet
 
Interior release lever. Exterior safety catch. Bonnet stay.
CO >
Q 220
 
Familiarisation A
Interior Speed limiter / Cruise Multimedia controls
control They allow access to the various sources (radio, MP3, portable player, jukebox,
These two systems allow you to control the telephone) and volume adjustment.
speed of the vehicle to a value you have programmed.
€) 99, 101
 
Electronic gearbox 7-inch touch screen tablet It offers the ease of automatic management of It gives access to the air conditioning controls, the gears, without intervention by the driver. settings for vehicle systems, controls for
the audio navigation and telematic systems, configuration of the display, ...
© 90 Cha
Familiarisation
Instruments and controls
1.
DARN
10.
11. 12. 13.
14. 15. 16. 17. 18. 19.
Vents for demisting or defrosting the front side windows.
Side adjustable air vents.
Door mirror controls.
Headlamp height adjustment.
Lighting and direction indicator stalk. Controls for the speed limiter / cruise control.
Steering mounted controls (electronic gearbox).
Instrument panel.
Driver's front airbag.
Horn.
Audio system and telephone steering mounted controls.
Wiper / screenwash / trip computer stalk. 7-inch touch screen tablet.
Controls for: front/rear demisting and defrosting, central locking, deactivating DSC, Park Assist, hazard warning lamps. Central adjustable air vents.
12V accessory socket.
USB port.
Control panel (electronic gearbox). Central storage.
Parking brake.
 
 
7-inch touch screen tablet
Operation Menus
Use the buttons arranged either side of the touch screen tablet for access to the menus, then press on the virtual buttons in the screen. Each menu Is displayed over one or two pages (primary page and secondary page).
For access to the secondary page > | (from the primary page).
<] To return to the primary page (from the secondary page).
v6
For access to additional information es and to the settings for certain functions.
Y To confirm.
© 2D
a To quit. Cha
Familiarisation
 
"Air conditioning".
"Driving assistance".
"Media".
"Navigation".
(ey "Configuration".
Lt "Connected services".
St | "Telephone".
i Use aclean soft cloth to clean the touch screen tablet.
Do not use pointed objects on the touch screen. Do not touch the touch screen with wet hands.
Familiarisation
sitting comfortably Driver's seat
1. Forwards-backwards adjustment. 2. Adjustment of the backrest angle. 3. Adjustment of the cushion height.
) Asasafety precaution, adjustments to the drivers seat most only be made when stationary.
Q 57
 
 
sitting comfortably
Head restraint adjustment
t
Y
an F
To raise it, pull it upwards. 1. Release. To lower it, press on the lug A and on the head 2. Adjust for height. restraint at the same time. 3. Lock.
) As a safety precaution, these © 58 ° operations must only be carried out when stationary.
Ch eu
Steering wheel adjustment
Familiarisation A
Door mirrors
 
Adjustment
A. Turn to select the mirror to adjust.
B. Adjust the mirror position in four directions.
Ce
12
Familiarisation E
sitting comfortably
Rear view mirror Front seat belts Heated seats
 
1. Selection of the "day" position of the mirror. Fastening the buckle. 0: Off.
2. Adjustment of the mirror. 1: Low. 2: Medium. 3: High
Q 63 Q 137 @ 59
 
seeing clearly Lighting
 
Ring A o Lighting off/daytime running lamps.
EGE) Automatic illumination of headlamps.
ey Sidelamps.
Zen Dipped / main beam headlamps.
Q 114 Ring B
"WE Rear foglamp only. V
D Front foglamps and rear ECH foglamp.
() 115
  
Stalk A: windscreen wipers
2. Fast wipe.
1. Normal wipe.
Int. Intermittent wipe.
0. Off.
Single wipe: pull the stalk briefly towards you.
or
AUTO Automatic wiping.
Q 122
Familiarisation C
 
Switching on "AUTO"
e Press the stalk downwards.
Switching off "AUTO"
zc Press the stalk downwards again or place the stalk in another position (Int, 1 or 2).
Q124 Ring B: rear wiper
ep Pak. Bey intermittent wipe.
Wipe with screen wash.
Q 123
13
14
Familiarisation
Passenger safety Passenger's front airbag
 
1. Open the glove box. Insert the key.
3. Select the position:
"OFF" (deactivated), with "rearward facing" child seat,
"ON" (activated), with front passenger or "forward facing" child seat.
4. Remove the key keeping the switch in the
new position.
Q 141
Seat belt warning lamps
=
Not fastened / unfastened front seat belts, in the instrument panel.
Left hand front.
Right hand front.
Right hand rear.
Centre rear.
Left hand rear.
SES
©) 138
 
Manual child lock
 
This manual device prevents the opening of a rear door from the inside.
The control is located on the edge of each rear door.
© 160
 
Driving safely Electronic gearbox
aN
This five or six speed electronically controlled gearbox offers the ease of automatic management of the gears, without intervention by the driver. The steering mounted paddles allows temporary manual control of the gears.
Display in the instrument panel
N Neutral
Dand12345/6 Drive (forward drive) and
R Reverse.
D
-n
the gear engaged.
Familiarisation A
 
Moving off
e Switch the ignition on.
Press the N (Neutral) control.
Press firmly on the brake pedal.
Start the engine.
Press control D to select forward drive,
or
Press control R to select reverse gear.
Release the parking brake.
* Progressively release the brake pedal: the vehicle moves off.
444 4
© 90
15
16
Familiarisation
Driving safely
Stop & Start Going into engine STOP mode
The "ECO" warning lamp comes on in ECO the instrument panel and the engine automatically goes into standby:
- with a manual gearbox, vehicle stationary, when you put the gearbox into neutral and release the clutch pedal,
- with an electronic gearbox, vehicle stationary or at speeds below 5 mph (8 km/h) (depending on version), when you put the gearbox into neutral (control on N) or when you press the brake pedal.
In some circumstances, STOP mode may not be available; the "ECO" warning lamp flashes for few seconds, then goes off.
©) 95
Going into engine START mode
The "ECO" warning lamp goes off ECO and the engine restarts automatically:
- with a manual gearbox, when you fully depress the clutch pedal, - with an electronic gearbox: e control on D, when you release the brake pedal, e control on N and brake pedal released, when you press control D, e when you engage reverse.
In certain special circumstances, START mode may be invoked automatically; the "ECO" warning lamp flashes for few seconds, then goes off.
€) 96
Deactivation / Reactivation
 
The Stop & Start system can be deactivated in the the touch screen tablet. ES * Select the "Driving assistance"
menu. E * Press on "Stop & Start".
OFF Pressing this button again reactivates Stop & Start.
i The system is reactivated automatically at every new start using the key. ) Before refuelling or doing anything
under the bonnet, you must switch off the ignition with the key.
Q 927
 
Driving safely Speed limiter "LIMIT"
 
Select speed limiter mode.
Decrease the programmed speed Increase the programmed speed. Speed limiter On / Pause.
Display the list of memorised speeds.
SH a
Operation of the speed limiter requires a programmed speed of at least 20 mph (30 km/h).
€) 98
Cruise control "CRUISE"
      
‘ES ©
` EN R ' B
ERAN
1. Select cruise control mode.
Activation of cruise control at the current speed of your vehicle, then decrease the programmed speed.
3. Activation of cruise control at the current speed of your vehicle, then increase the programmed speed.
4. Cruise control Pause / Resume.
5. Display the list of memorised speeds.
Operation of the cruise control requires a vehicle speed of at least 25 mph (40 km/h).
Q 101
Familiarisation a
cork. GAA "` SR Sr, ti
   
wy CRUISE C) OMIT
Display in the instrument panel
When selected, the speed limiter or cruise control mode is displayed in the instrument panel, accompanied by the value of the programmed speed.
ef Speed limiter XO Cruise control
17
18
Eco-driving
Familiarisation
*®Eco-driving
Eco-driving is a range of everyday practices that allow the motorist to optimise their fuel consumption and CO, emissions.
Optimise the use of your gearbox
With a manual gearbox, move off gently and change up without waiting. During acceleration change up early.
The gear shift indicator invites you engage the most suitable gear: as soon as the indication is displayed in the instrument panel, follow it straight away.
With an electronic gearbox, do not press the accelerator pedal heavily or suddenly.
Drive smoothly
Maintain a safe distance between vehicles, use engine braking rather than the brake pedal, and press the accelerator progressively. These practices contribute towards a reduction in fuel consumption and CO, emissions and also help reduce the background traffic noise.
If your vehicle has cruise control, make use of the system at speeds above 25 mph (40 km/h) when the traffic is flowing well.
Control the use of your electrical equipment
Before moving off, if the passenger compartment is too warm, ventilate it by opening the windows and air vents before using the air conditioning. Above 30 mph (50 km/h), close the windows and leave the air vents open.
Remember to make use of equipment that can help keep the temperature in the passenger compartment down (sunroof and window blinds...).
To save energy, do not set the air conditioning at too low a temperature. As soon as the desired temperature has been reached, limit the use of the air conditioning, except if regulation is automatic.
Switch off the demisting and defrosting controls as soon as you consider possible.
Switch off the heated seat as soon as possible.
Switch off the headlamps and foglamp when the level of light does not require their use.
Avoid running the engine before moving off, particularly in winter; your vehicle will warm up much faster while driving.
As a passenger, if you avoid connecting your multimedia devices (film, music, video game...), you will contribute towards limiting the consumption of electrical energy, and so of fuel.
Disconnect your portable devices before leaving the vehicle.
Limit the causes of excess consumption
Spread loads throughout the vehicle; place the heaviest items in the bottom of the boot, as close as possible to the rear seats.
Limit the loads carried in the vehicle and reduce wind resistance (roof bars, roof rack, bicycle carrier, trailer...). Use a roof box in preference. Remove roof bars and roof racks after use.
At the end of winter, remove snow tyres and refit your Summer tyres.
Familiarisation A
Observe the recommendations on maintenance
Check the tyre pressures regularly, when cold, referring to the label in the door aperture, driver's side.
Carry out this check in particular:
- before a long journey,
- at each change of season,
- after along period out of use.
Don't forget the spare wheel and the tyres on any trailer or caravan.
Have your vehicle serviced regularly (engine oil, oil filter, air filter, passenger compartment filter...) and observe the schedule of operations recommended in the maintenance and warranty guide.
When refuelling, do not continue after the third cut-off of the nozzle to avoid any overflow.
At the wheel of your new vehicle, it is only after the first 1 800 miles
(3 000 kilometres) that you will see the fuel consumption settle down to a consistent average.
19
Monitoring
Instrument panel ses E È O m £ @w woe
ar
USE |
      
       
 
ON PA Sa > , eo Ss a a a oe nigh noc. 7 wenn WB ee Be E oy CRUISE Ea Ea e pp DD: dem © æ =D i) ECO SERVICE #0 OS Ki ZS ON.
Display screens
    
oD E RN
EN oO
             
        
ee men ze mr mm AE pm et fN Ge
   
1. Service indicator, then total distance 3. Digital soeedometer (mph or km/h). 5. Gear shift indicator. recorder (miles or km). 4. Information related to the electronic 6. Engine oil level indicator. These functions are displayed in turn when gearbox. 7. Fuel gauge.
the ignition is switched on. 2. Cruise control or speed limiter settings.
20
 
 
Indicator and warning lamps
Visual indicators informing the driver that a system is in operation, switched off or has a fault.
When the ignition is switched on
Certain warning lamps come on for a few seconds in the instrument panel when the vehicle's ignition is switched on.
When the engine is started, these same warning lamps should go off.
If they remain on, before moving off, refer to the section on the warning lamp concerned.
When switching on the ignition, the displays in the instrument panel appear dynamically and progressively. This is normal operation.
Fae
1gig n A @ stop g Gi Wi SERVICE EN
Associated warnings
The switching on of certain warning lamps may be accompanied by an audible signal and a message.
The warning lamps may come on continuously (fixed) or flash.
Si a
Monitoring
L
w
Certain warning lamps may come on in one of two modes: fixed (continuous) or flashing.
Only by relating the type of illumination to the operation of the vehicle can it
be determined whether the situation is normal or a fault has occurred. In the event of a fault, the illumination of the warning lamp may be accompanied by a message.
Refer to the tables in the following pages for more information.
21
22
Monitoring E
Operation indicator lamps
If one of the following indicator lamps comes on, this confirms that the corresponding system has come into operation. It may be accompanied by an audible signal and a message in the screen.
Left-hand flashing with buzzer. The lighting stalk is pushed down. direction indicator Right-hand flashing with buzzer. The lighting stalk is pushed up. direction indicator
Sie | Sidelamps fixed. The lighting stalk is in the
P- ; A "Sidelamps" position. Dipped beam fixed. The lighting stalk is in the "Dipped headlamps beam headlamps" position.
Main beam fixed. The lighting stalk is pulled towards Pull the stalk to return to dipped beam headlamps. headlamps you. Front fixed. The front foglamps are switched on. Turn the ring on the stalk rearwards twice to switch off EOD foglamps the front foglamps.
 
i For more information on the lighting controls, refer to the corresponding section.
 
Monitoring Warning / indicator lamp / Warning / indicator lamp lamp | State ` Action / Observations
Rear foglamp fixed. The rear foglamp is switched on. Turn the ring on the stalk rearwards to switch off the rear foglamp.
Diesel engine i The key is at position 2 (ignition on) in | Wait until the warning lamp goes off before starting. pre-heating the ignition switch. The period of illumination of the warning lamp is determined by the climatic conditions (up to about
thirty seconds in extreme climatic conditions).
If the engine does not start, switch the ignition off and then on, wait until the warning lamp goes off again, then start the engine.
O Parking brake fixed. The parking brake is applied or not Release the parking brake to switch off the warning properly released. lamp, keeping your foot on the brake pedal. Observe the safety recommendations. For further information on the parking brake, refer to the "Parking brake" section.
 
23
24
Monitoring
a AUTO
Automatic wiping
Passenger's front airbag
Stop & Start fixed.
flashes for a few seconds, then goes off.
The wiper control is pushed downwards.
The control switch, located in the glove box, is in the "ON" position.
The passenger's front airbag is activated.
In this case, do not install a rearward facing child seat.
When the vehicle stops (red lights, traffic jams, ...) the Stop & Start system has put the engine into STOP mode.
STOP mode is temporarily unavailable.
or
START mode is invoked automatically.
Automatic front wiping is activated. To deactivate automatic wiping, operate the control stalk downwards or put the stalk into another position.
Turn the control switch to the "OFF" position to deactivate the front passenger's airbag.
You can install a rearward facing child seat, unless there is an airbag fault (Airbag warning lamp on).
The warning lamp goes off and the engine restarts automatically in START mode, as soon as you want to move off.
For more information on special cases with STOP mode and START mode, refer to the "Stop & Start" section.
 
Deactivation indicator lamps
Monitoring
If one of the following indicator lamps comes on, this confirms that the corresponding system has been switched off intentionally.
This is may be accompanied by an audible signal and the display of a message.
Passenger's The control switch, located in the front airbag glove box, is set to the OFF position. The passenger's front airbag is deactivated. You can install the child seat "rearward facing", unless there is an airbag fault (Airbag warning lamp on).
Dynamic The button is pressed and the stability control indicator lamp comes on. @® | (DSC/ASR) The DSC/ASR is deactivated. DSC: dynamic stability control. ASR: anti-slip regulation.
 
Set the control to the "ON" position to activate the passenger's front airbag.
In this case, do not fit a child seat in the "rearward facing" position.
Press the button to activate the DSC/ASR. Its indicator lamp goes off.
The DSC/ASR system Is activated automatically when the vehicle is started.
If deactivated, the system is reactivated automatically from around 30 mph (50 km/h).
For more information on DSC/ASR, refer to the corresponding section.
T
25
26
Monitoring
Warning lamps
When the engine is running or the vehicle is being driven, illumination of one of the following warning lamps indicates a fault which requires action on
the part of the driver.
Any fault resulting in the illumination of a warning lamp must be investigated further using the associated message.
lf you encounter any problems, contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
STOP STOP fixed, associated with | Illumination of this warning lamp is another warning lamp, | related to a serious fault detected accompanied by an with the braking or power steering audible signal and a systems, the electrical system, or message. with engine lubrication or cooling or
a puncture.
on temporarily. A minor fault has occurred for which there is no specific warning lamp.
A major fault has occurred for which there is no specific warning lamp.
Stop as soon as it is safe to do so as the engine may cut out.
Park, switch off the ignition and call a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
Identify the fault by means of the associated message, such as:
opening of a door, the boot or bonnet,
low engine oil level,
low screenwash fluid level,
discharged remote control battery,
low tyre pressures,
saturation of the particle emission filter (PEF) on
Diesel vehicles. For more information on the PEF, refer to the "Checks - particle emissions filter" section. For any other faults, contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
Identify the fault by reading the message and contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
 
 
Monitoring
Braking The brake fluid level has dropped You must stop as soon as it is safe to do so. significantly. Top up with brake fluid listed by CITROEN. If the problem persists, have the system checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
fixed, associated The electronic brake force distribution | You must stop as soon as it is safe to do so. with the ABS warning | (EBFD) system has a fault. Have it checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified lamp. workshop.
Anti-lock The anti-lock braking system has a The vehicle retains conventional braking. Braking System fault. Drive carefully at reduced speed and contact a (ABS) CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop without
delay.
Dynamic flashing. The DSC/ASR regulation is The system optimises traction and improves the stability control operating. directional stability of the vehicle in the event of loss of (DSC/ASR) grip or trajectory. fixed. The DSC/ASR system has a fault. Have it checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop. Engine flashing. The engine management system has | Risk of destruction of the catalytic converter. autodiagnosis a fault. Have it checked by a CITROËN dealer or a qualified system workshop. fixed. The emission control system has a The warning lamp should go off when the engine is started. fault. If it does not go off, contact a CITROEN dealer or qualified workshop without delay.
 
28
Monitoring
UREA AdBlue® additive AAAA | (Blue HDi Diesel)
fixed, on switching
on the ignition, accompanied by an audible signal and a message indicating the
remaining driving range.
flashing associated with the SERVICE warning lamp, accompanied by an audible signal and a message indicating the
remaining driving range.
flashing, associated with the SERVICE warning lamp, accompanied by an audible signal and a message indicating that starting is prevented.
The remaining driving range is between 350 miles (600 km) and 1500 miles (2400 km).
The remaining driving range is between 0 and 375 miles (600 km).
The AdBlue® tank is empty: the starting inhibition system required by legislation prevents starting of the engine.
Have the AdBlue® additive topped up as soon as possible: go to a dealer CITROEN or a qualified
workshop, or carry out this operation yourself by referring to the corresponding section.
You must top-up the AdBlue® additive tank to avoid a breakdown: go to a dealer CITROEN or a qualified workshop, or carry out this operation yourself by referring to the corresponding section.
To be able to start the engine, you must top-up the AdBlue® additive tank: go to a dealer CITROEN ora qualified workshop, or carry out this operation yourself by referring to the corresponding section.
It is essential to add at least 3.8 litres of AdBlue® to the tank.
 
fixed, on switching on A fault with the SCR emissions the ignition, associated | control system has been detected. with the SERVICE
and engine diagnostic
warning lamps,
accompanied by an
audible signal anda
message indicating an
emissions control fault.
flashing, on switching The remaining driving range is
on the ignition, between 0 and 650 miles (1 100 km).
associated with the SERVICE and engine diagnostic warning lamps, accompanied by an audible signal and a message indicating the remaining driving range.
flashing, on switching You have exceeded the authorised on the ignition, driving limit: the starting inhibition associated with the system prevents starting of the SERVICE and engine engine.
diagnostic warning
lamps, accompanied by
an audible signal anda
message indicating that
starting is prevented.
Monitoring
This alert disappears once the exhaust emissions return to normal levels.
Contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop without delay.
To be able to start the engine, you must call ona CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
 
29
30
Monitoring
fixed, accompanied by | When it first comes on there remains
Low fuel level
Seat belt(s) not fastened / unfastened
Airbags
an audible signal and a message.
fixed
or flashing accompanied by an audible signal.
on temporarily.
approximately 5 litres of fuel in the tank. You are then using the fuel reserve.
A seat belt has not been fastened or has been unfastened.
This lamp comes on for a few seconds when you turn on the ignition, then goes off.
One of the airbag or seat belt pretensioner systems has a fault.
You must refuel as soon as possible to avoid running
out of fuel.
Until sufficient fuel is added, this warning lamp will
come on every time the ignition is switched on,
accompanied by an audible signal and a message.
This audible signal and message are repeated with
increasing frequency as the drops towards "0".
Fuel tank capacity:
- Petrol: approximately 50 litres.
- Diesel: approximately 45 or 50 litres (depending on version).
Never continue to drive until you run out of fuel as
this could damage the emission control and injection
systems.
Pull the strap then insert the tongue in the buckle.
This lamp should go off when the engine is started.
If it does not go off, contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
Have it checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
 
 
Monitoring
Battery charge
Maximum coolant temperature
Engine oil pressure
The battery charging circuit has a fault (dirty or loose terminals, slack or cut alternator belt, ...).
The temperature of the cooling system is too high.
There is a fault with the engine lubrication system.
The warning lamp should go off when the engine is started.
If it does not go off, contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
Stop as soon as it is safe to do so.
Wait until the engine has cooled down before topping up the level, if necessary.
If the problem persists, contact a CITROEN dealer or qualified workshop.
You must stop as soon it is safe to do so. Park, switch off the ignition and contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
 
31
32
Monitoring
Under-inflation
Foot on the brake pedal
fixed, accompanied by | The pressure in one or more wheels an audible signal and _ | is too low. a message.
flashing then fixed, The system has fault: the tyre accompanied by the pressures are no longer monitored. Service warning lamp.
flashing, accompanied | The brake pedal is not pressed when by an audible signal starting the engine, with an electronic and a message, and gearbox.
associated with the
"Foot on the brake"
warning flashing in the
control panel for the
electronic gearbox.
flashing. With an electronic gearbox, if you hold the vehicle on an incline using the accelerator for too long, the clutch overheats.
Check the pressure of the tyres as soon as possible. This check should preferably be carried out when the tyres are cold.
You must reinitialise the system after the adjustment of one or more tyre pressures and after changing one or more wheels.
For more information, refer to the "Under-inflation detection" section.
Check the tyre pressures as soon as possible. have the system checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
With an electronic gearbox, press the brake pedal to start the engine.
If you wish to release the parking brake without pressing the brake pedal, this warning lamp will remain on.
Use the brake pedal and/or the parking brake.
 
 
Indicators Service indicator
É
System which informs the driver when the next service is due, in accordance with the manufacturer's servicing schedule.
The point at which the next service is due is calculated from the last indicator zero reset, depending on the distance travelled and the time elapsed since the last service.
For Blue HDi Diesel versions, the degree of deterioration of the engine oil is also taken into account (depending on the country of sale).
þm o
More than 1 800 miles (3 000 km) remain before the next service is due
When the ignition is switched on, no service information appears in the screen.
Monitoring
L
Between 600 miles (1 000 km) and 1 800 miles (3 000 km) remain before the next service is due
For 5 seconds after the ignition is switched on, the spanner symbolising the service operations comes on. The distance recorder display line indicates the distance remaining before the next service is due.
Example: 1 700 miles (2 800 km) remain before the next service is due.
For 5 seconds after the ignition is switched on, the screen indicates:
1 2800
5 seconds after the ignition is switched on,
the spanner goes off; the distance recorder resumes its normal operation. The screen then indicates the total distance.
Iiep
33
34
Monitoring
Less than 600 miles (1 000 km) remain before the next service is due
Example: 560 miles (900 km) remain before the next service is due.
For 5 seconds after the ignition is switched on, the screen indicates:
. 900°
5 seconds after the ignition is switched on, the distance recorder resumes its normal operation. The spanner remains on to indicate that a service must be carried out soon.
\ 9S Toit
Service overdue
For 5 seconds after the ignition is switched on, the spanner flashes to indicate that the service must be carried out as soon as possible.
Example: the service is overdue by 186 miles (300 km).
For 5 seconds after the ignition is switched on, the screen indicates:
3 -300
5 seconds after the ignition is switched on, the distance recorder resumes its normal operation. The spanner remains on.
For Blue HDi Diesel versions, this alert 1 may also be accompanied by the fixed illumination of the "SERVICE" warning lamp when the ignition is on.
äs
se
The distance remaining may be weighted by the time factor, depending on the driving conditions.
Therefore, the spanner may also come on if you have exceeded the period since the last service, indicated in the maintenance and warranty guide.
For Blue HDi Diesel versions, the spanner may also be brought on earlier than expected, depending on the degree of deterioration of the engine oil (depending on the country of sale).
The rate of deterioration of the engine oil depends on the driving conditions in which the vehicle is used.
It
Service indicator zero reset
After each service, the service indicator must
be reset to zero.
If you have carried out the service on your
vehicle yourself:
= switch off the ignition,
e press and hold the button on the end of the lighting control stalk,
= switch on the ignition; the distance recorder display begins a countdown,
* when the display indicates "=0", release the button; the spanner disappears.
Following this operation, if you wish to disconnect the battery, lock the vehicle and wait at least five minutes for the zero reset to be taken into account.
þm o
Retrieving the service information
You can access the service information at any time in the touch screen tablet.
* Select the "Driving assistance" ECH ` eeng
In the secondary page, select CHECK ur “ait Diagnostic".
The servicing information is displayed in the
screen.
Monitoring
L
35
36
Monitoring
Engine oil level indicator
(depending on version)
System which informs the driver whether the engine oil level is correct or not.
This information is indicated for a few seconds when the ignition is switched on, after the service information.
i The level read will only be correct if the vehicle is on level ground and the engine has been off for more than 30 minutes.
OIL OK
Oil level correct
This is indicated by a message in the instrument panel.
OIL
Oil level incorrect
This is indicated by a message in the instrument panel.
If the low oil level is confirmed by a check using the dipstick, the level must be topped up to avoid damage to the engine.
i Refer to the "Checks" section.
OIL__
Oil level indicator fault
This is indicated by a message in the instrument panel. Contact a CITROËN dealer or a qualified workshop.
 
7-inch touch screen tablet
The touch screen tablet gives access to:
- the heating/air conditioning controls,
- the trip computer for settings for certain vehicle functions,
- audio system and telephone controls,
- interactive help, sound settings and the brightness of instruments and controls,
and, depending on equipment:
- the controls for the navigation system and connected services.
For reasons of safety, the driver should only carry out operations that require close attention, with the vehicle stationary.
Some functions are not accessible when driving.
General operation
Recommendations
It is necessary to press firmly, particularly for "flick" gestures (scrolling through lists, moving the map...).
A light wipe is not enough.
The tablet does not recognise pressing with more than one finger.
This technology allows use at all temperatures and when wearing gloves.
Do not use pointed objects on the touch screen tablet.
Do not touch the tablet screen with wet hands. Uses a soft clean cloth to clean the tablet touch screen.
i In very hot conditions, the system may go into standby (display and sound off) for a minimum period of 5 minutes.
State of indicator lamps
Some buttons contain an indicator lamp that gives the state of the corresponding function. Green indicator: you have switched on the corresponding function.
Orange indicator: you have switched off the corresponding function.
Monitoring
L
Principles
Use the buttons on either side of the screen for access to the menus, then press the virtual buttons in the touch screen.
Each menu is displayed over one or two pages (primary page and secondary page).
d a
Use this button to go to the secondary page.
Use this button to return to the primary page.
After a few moments with no action on
the secondary page, the primary page is displayed automatically.
he
x <
Use this button for access to additional information and to the settings for certain functions.
Use this button to confirm and save the changes.
Use this button to quit.
37
Monitoring
Touch screen tablet menus
"Air conditioning" "Configuration" gs We allows control of the settings for (ey allows sound settings and the temperature and air flow. E d brightness of instruments and ` controls to be adjusted and gives wets n D E access to the interactive help for the Driving assistance main vehicle systems and warning CH allows access to the trip computer = o | , l , : E amps. and certain vehicle functions to be activated, deactivated and adjusted. at "Connected services’ Lt allows connection to an applications "Media" a portal to facilitate, make safe and
i iT D . ol allows selection of a radio station, KA po One ee Py ee of a connection key available on
ne EE subscription from a CITROEN dealer. display of photographs.
A "Navigation" < Gi » allows settings for navigation and the "Telephone"
v choice of a destination. allows the connection of a mobile telephone via Bluetooth.
o
For the Air conditioning menu, refer to For the Media, Navigation, Connected the "Comfort" section. Services and Telephone menus, refer to the "Audio and telematics" section.
* Depending on equipment.
38
 
TTT sss Monitoring
"Driving assistance" menu The functions with settings that can be adjusted are detailed in the following table.
Stop & Start Deactivation of the function.
Parking sensors Deactivation of the function.
Speed settings Memorisation of speeds for use with the speed limiter or cruise control.
Under-inflation initialisation Reinitialisation of the under-inflation detection system.
Activation / Deactivation of the Park Assist function.
 
T
39
40
Monitoring E
Diagnostic List of current alerts, servicing information. CHECK
Vehicle settings Access to other functions with settings that can be adjusted. The functions are grouped together under three tabs: - "Driving assistance"
e "Automatic rear wiper in reverse": activation/deactivation of rear wiper linked to reverse gear (see the "Visibility" section). - "Lighting" e "Guide-me-home lighting": activation/deactivation and duration of the automatic guide-me-home lighting (see the "Visibility" section). - "Vehicle access"
e "Unlock boot only": activation/deactivation of selective boot unlocking (see the "Access" section).
 
TTT sss Monitoring
T
"Configuration" menu The functions available through this menu are detailed in the table below.
Audio settings Adjustment of volume, balance...
Turn off screen Turns off the screen display in the touch screen tablet (black screen). Pressing the black screen restores the display.
Brightness Adjustment of the brightness of the instruments and controls.
 
Interactive help Access to the interactive handbook.
41
42
Monitoring E
Configuration Choice of units: - temperature (°Celsius or Fahrenheit) - distance and fuel consumption (1/100 km, mpg or km/l).
Time/Date Setting the date and time. Languages Choice of language used by the touch screen tablet: French, English, Italian, Spanish, German, Dutch, Portuguese, Polish, Turkish, Russian, Croatian, Hungarian, Czech, Brazilian.
Screen settings Adjustment of the display settings (scrolling of text, animations...)
Calculator Display the calculator. T
 
 
Trip computer
System that gives you information on the journey in progress (range, fuel consumption...). The information is accessible in the the touch screen tablet.
Information display in the touch screen tablet
[0 o o
* Select the "Driving assistance" menu.
=
The trip computer information is displayed in
the primary page of the menu.
e Press one of the buttons to display the desired tab.
1 For a temporary display in a new window, press the end of the wiper stalk for access to the information and cycle through the different tabs.
The current fuel consumption tab with:
e the range,
e the current fuel consumption, e the Stop & Start time counter.
The trip "1" tab with: e the average fuel consumption, e the distance travelled. e the average speed, for the first trip.
The trip "2" tab with: e the average fuel consumption, e the distance travelled. e the average speed, for the second trip.
Monitoring
L
Trip reset
=
e When the desired trip is displayed, press the Reset button or on the end of the wiper control stalk until zeros appear.
Trips "1" and "2" are independent.
For example, trip "1" can be used for daily
figures, and trip "2" for monthly figures.
43
44
Monitoring
Trip computer, a few definitions
R Fi ange
(miles or km)
The distance which can still be travelled with the fuel remaining in the tank (related to the average fuel consumption over the last few miles (kilometres) travelled).
i This value may vary following a change in the style of driving or the relief, resulting in a significant change in the current fuel consumption.
Current fuel consumption
(mpg or 1/100 km or km/l) Calculated over the last few seconds.
This function is only displayed from 20 mph (30 km/h).
Stop & Start time counter
Eco (minutes / seconds or hours /
minutes)
If your vehicle is fitted with Stop & Start, a time
When the range falls below 20 miles (30 km),
dashes are displayed. After filling with at least
5 litres of fuel, the range is recalculated and is
displayed when it exceeds 60 miles (100 km).
i If dashes are displayed continuously
while driving in place of the digits, contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
counter calculates the time spent in STOP mode during a journey.
It resets to zero every time the ignition is switched on.
 
ee?
Average fuel consumption
(mpg or 1/100 km or km/l) Calculated since the last trip computer reset.
Distance travelled
(miles or km) Calculated since the last trip computer reset.
Average speed
(mph or km/h) Calculated since the last trip computer reset.
 
Distance recorders Total distance recorder
cs ia
System which measures the total distance travelled by the vehicle during its life.
The total distance recorder is displayed continuously in the instrument panel, as soon as the driver's door is opened, as well as when the vehicle is locked or unlocked.
1 To conform to legislation in the country you are crossing, change the units of distance (miles or km) in the "Configuration" menu of the touch screen tablet.
This operation must be carried out with the vehicle stationary.
Trip distance recorder
A 6 ges BZ im
a
System which measures a distance travelled (daily, for example) since it was reset to zero by the driver.
This function is accessible from the trip computer in the touch screen tablet.
= * Select the "Driving assistance" menu.
e © Select the tab for trip "1" or trip "2".
* To reset the trip recorder to zero, press the "Reset" button or the end of the wiper control stalk until zeros appear.
Monitoring
L
45
Monitoring
setting the date and time
12H CD 24H oë OO On
rn 76/01/2013
 
This function is accessible in the touch screen * Select "Adjust time" or "Adjust date" tablet. and modify the settings using the number keypad, then confirm. g © Select the "Configuration" menu.
e Inthe secondary page, press on
LO "Time/Date".
46
Lé
 
 
* Press "Confirm" to quit.
 
Access
Remote control key
System which permits central unlocking or locking of the vehicle using the door lock or from a distance. It is also used to locate and start the vehicle, as well as providing protection against theft.
Unfolding / folding the key Unlocking the vehicle
 
Unlocking using the remote Selective unlocking of the boot control e Press the open padlock to unlock e Press the central button on the SSS Ey x Si the vehicle. remote control to unlock the "Ah boot. The doors remain locked. f s Unlocking is confirmed by rapid i If selective unlocking of the boot is ` flashing of the direction indicators for deactivated, pressing this button also approximately two seconds. unlocks the doors.
Ì Don't forget to lock the boot again by
pressing the closed padlock button. * Press this button to unfold or fold the key.
Unlocking using the key The activation or deactivation of selective boot unlocking is set in the touch screen tablet. e Turn the key in the driver's door lock
towards the front of the vehicle to unlock. A ; n * Select the "Driving assistance
menu.
S * Inthe secondary page, press on
"Vehicle settings".
° Selective unlocking of the boot is activated by default.
47
48
Access
Locking the vehicle
Locking using the remote control
ze Press the closed padlock to lock SG the vehicle.
 
Locking is confirmed by the fixed illumination of the direction indicators for approximately two seconds.
i If one of the doors or the boot is still
open, the central locking does not
take place; the vehicle locks then immediately unlocks, identifiable by the sound of the locks rebounding.
When the vehicle is locked, if it is unlocked inadvertently, it will lock again automatically after thirty seconds unless a door or the boot is open.
Locking using the key
ze Turn the key in the driver's door lock, towards the rear of the vehicle to lock it.
°- Check that the doors and boot are fully closed.
Locating your vehicle
This function allows you to identify your vehicle from a distance, especially when the light is poor. Your vehicle must be locked.
ze Press the closed padlock on the SG remote control.
This will bring on the courtesy lamps and flashing of the direction indicators for a few seconds.
Anti-theft protection
Electronic engine immobiliser
The key contains an electronic chip which has a special code. When the ignition is switched on, this code must be recognised in order for starting to be possible.
This electronic engine immobiliser locks the engine management system a few minutes after the ignition is switched off and prevents starting of the engine by anyone who does not have the key.
In the event of a fault, you are informed by illumination of this warning lamp, an audible signal and a message in the screen.
SERVICE
In this case, your vehicle will not start; contact a CITROEN dealer as soon as possible.
Keep safely, away from your vehicle, the label attached to the keys given to you on acquisition of the vehicle.
E Access
2
Fault with the remote
control In the event of a fault with the remote control, Ge you can no longer unlock, lock or locate your ie b vehicle. i zc First of all, use the key in the lock to unlock p — or lock your vehicle. ey = « Then, reinitialise the remote control. oo e — = | | Dan nr Reinitialisation Changing the battery = Switch off the ignition and remove the Battery ref.: CR2032 / 3 volts. # Remove the flat battery from its location. ignition key. æ Fit the new battery into its location , If the battery is flat, you are "2 ives Lë" ie the ~ padlock immediately for a SERVICE informed by ‘llumination of this observing the original direction of fitment. aia mas e Ne warning lamp, an audible signal = Clip the cover onto the casing. e Turn the key to position 2 (Ignition on). Seege zz Switch off the ignition and remove the key g from the ignition switch.  Unclip the cover using a small screwdriver , The remote control is fully operational again. at the cutout. f Ifthe problem persists, contact a ve Liftoff the cover. ° CITROEN dealer as soon as possible.
49
50
Access
Lost keys
Go to a CITROEN dealer with the vehicle's registration document, your personal identification documents and if possible the key code label.
The CITROEN dealer will be able to look up the key code and the transponder code required to order a new key.
Remote control
The high frequency remote control is a sensitive system; do not operate it while it is in your pocket as there is a possibility that it may unlock the vehicle, without you being aware of it. Do not repeatedly press the buttons of your remote control out of range and out of sight of your vehicle. You run the risk of stopping it from working and the remote control would have to be reinitialised.
No remote control can operate when the key is in the ignition switch, even when the ignition is switched off, except for reinitialisation.
Locking the vehicle
Driving with the doors locked may make access to the passenger compartment by the emergency services more difficult in an emergency.
As a safety precaution, never leave children alone in the vehicle, except for a very short period. In all cases, it is essential to remove the key from the ignition switch when leaving the vehicle.
Anti-theft protection
Do not make any modifications to the electronic engine immobiliser system; this could cause malfunctions.
When purchasing a second-hand vehicle
Have the pairing of all of the keys in your possession checked by a CITROEN dealer, to ensure that only your keys can be used to open and start the vehicle.
Do not throw the remote control batteries away, they contain metals which are harmful to the environment. Take them to an approved collection point.
 
Central locking Manual central locking
 
= Press this button to operate the central locking of the vehicle (doors and boot) from inside the
vehicle, the indicator lamp in the button comes on.
Pressing the button again unlocks the vehicle completely, the indicator lamp in the button goes off.
į If one of the doors is open, central locking from the inside does not take place.
Automatic central locking (anti-intrusion security)
The doors and boot can lock automatically
while driving (speed above 6 mph (10 km/h)).
To activate or deactivate this function
(activated by default):
* Press this button until an audible signal is heard and a message appears in the screen.
Driving with the doors locked may make access to the passenger compartment by the emergency services more difficult in an emergency.
=e
Access
2
Transporting long or voluminous objects
If you want to drive with the boot open, press the central locking control button to lock the doors.
51
Access
Doors Opening
al wf ST
= |
From outside
ze After unlocking the vehicle using the remote control or the key, pull the door handle.
52
From inside
e Pull the interior control lever of a front door; this unlocks the vehicle completely.
= The interior opening control on a rear door does not work if the child lock is on. Refer to the "Child lock" section.
Closing
When a door is not fully closed:
engine running, a message appears in the screen,
vehicle moving, a message appears in the screen, accompanied by an audible signal.
Secondary control
Procedure for mechanically locking and unlocking the doors in the event of a fault with the central locking system or a battery failure.
= Inthe event of a fault with the central locking system, it is essential to disconnect the battery to lock the boot and so ensure complete locking of the vehicle.
Driver's door (locking/unlocking)
Insert the key in the lock to lock or unlock the door.
 
Front and rear passenger doors Locking
>- On the rear doors, check that the child lock is not on.
e Remove the black cap located on the edge of the door, using the key.
* Insert the key into the aperture without forcing, then without turning, move the latch sideways towards the inside of the door.
e Remove the key and refit the cap.
Unlocking e Pull the interior door opening control lever.
Access
2
53
54
Access
Boot Opening
ze After unlocking the boot (see the "Remote control key" section), press the opening control and raise the tailgate.
Closing
a
* Lower the tailgate using the interior grab handle.
If the tailgate is not fully closed:
- engine running, a message appears in the screen,
- vehicle moving, a message appears in the screen, accompanied by an audible signal.
Boot release
System for mechanical unlocking of the boot in the event of a battery or central locking malfunction.
: e a a D a
Unlocking
* Fold the rear seat backrest to gain access to the lock from inside the boot.
ze Insert a small screwdriver into hole A of the lock to unlock the tailgate.
 
Front electric window controls
o
230
Front left electric window switch. Front right electric window switch.
N sch
* Press the switch to open the window. e Pull the switch to close the window.
The window stops when you release the switch.
i
The electric window switches
remain operational for approximately 45 seconds after the ignition is switched off or until a front door
is opened. If, during this period of
45 seconds, you open a door while
operating a window, the window stops.
The window switch will then only be operative after the ignition is switched on again.
Access
Always remove the key from the ignition 2 when leaving the vehicle, even for a
short time.
In the event of contact during operation of the windows, reverse the movement of the window. To do this, press the corresponding switch.
When the driver operates the passenger electric window switch, they should ensure that no one is preventing correct closing of the window.
The driver should ensure that the passenger uses the electric window correctly.
Be particularly aware of children when operating the windows.
55
Access
Rear door windows
Each window can be hinged open to provide ventilation at the rear seats.
Opening Closing ze Pull the lever to release the window. e Tilt the lever fully inwards to secure the window in the closed position.
 
e Tilt the lever outwards. e Push it fully to secure the window in the open position.
56
 
Front seats
Adjustments Forwards-backwards
æ Raise the control A and slide the seat forwards or backwards.
As a safety measure, adjustments to the driver's seat must only be done when stationary.
Seat backrest angle
ze Turn the knob B to adjust the backrest.
Comfort
Height 3
(driver only)
"Ca Lu
i T d = = 5 =, bi A NM = Sa, F mn BA Ba, a, Be, "Se == E a, D, Dao D i D S e p
“he
e Sal "A = a d 3
e Pull the control C upwards to raise the seat or push it downwards to lower it, as many times as required, to obtain the desired position.
57
Comfort
Head restraint height
Sy
a
| 4
S
| i k 5.
VS
K
A
Cp zen
|
* To raise the head restraint, pull it upwards.
ze To remove the head restraint, press the lug A and pull the head restraint upwards.
* To put the head restraint back in place, engage the head restraint stems in the openings keeping them in line with the seat back.
LS"
To lower the head restraint, press the lug A and the head restraint at the same time.
58
 
The head restraint has a frame with notches which prevents it from lowering; this is a safety device in case of impact. The adjustment is correct when the upper edge of the head restraint is level with the top of the head.
Never drive with the head restraints removed; they must be in place and adjusted correctly.
Heated seats
e The front seats can be heated individually.
Before leaving the vehicle, check that the control wheel for the passenger's
seat is at position 0 so that the seat is not heated unnecessarily if there is no passenger on your next journey.
 
* With the engine running, use the control wheel to switch on and select the level of heating required:
0: Off.
1: Low.
2: Medium. 3: High.
Comfort
59
Comfort
Rear seats
Bench seat with fixed one-piece cushion and folding one-piece backrest.
Folding the backrest
 
buckle them. e Place the head restraints in the low position.
Move the front seats forward if necessary. Position the seat belts on the backrest and
* Press both controls 1 simultaneously to release the seat backrest 2.
e Fold the seat backrest 2 on to the cushion.
°> When folding the seat, the centre seat belt should not be buckled but laid out flat on the seat.
Repositioning the seat backrest
 
Straighten the seat backrest 2 and secure it.
Unfasten and return the seat belts to the sides of the backrest.
When repositioning the backrest, ensure that the seat belts are not trapped and the red indicator, located next to the controls 1, is no longer visible.
Rear head restraints
These have one position for use (up) anda stowed position (down).
They can be removed and are interchangeable side to side.
To remove a head restraint:
e Pull the head restraint upwards to the stop. = Then, press the lug A.
To refit a head restraint:
e Engage the head restraint rods in the apertures, keeping the head restraint in line with the seat backrest.
To lower a head restraint: e Press down on the head restraint and on lug A at the same time.
Never drive with the head restraints removed; they must be in place and
adjusted to the normal position (up).
Comfort
61
62
Comfort
Mirrors Door mirrors
Each fitted with an adjustable mirror glass providing the lateral rearward vision necessary for overtaking or parking. They can also be folded for parking in confined spaces.
 
Electric adjustment
= Move control A to the right or to the left to select the corresponding mirror.
e Move control in all four directions to adjust.
* Return control to the central position.
Manual folding
You can fold the mirrors manually (tight parking space, narrow garagé...). * Turn the mirror towards the vehicle.
) Asa safety measure, the mirrors should ° be adjusted to reduce the "blind spots". į The objects observed are, in reality,
closer than they appear.
Take this into account in order to correctly judge the distance of vehicles approaching from behind.
 
 
Demisting - Defrosting
Demisting-defrosting of the door
bo mirrors operates with the engine running, by switching on the heated rear screen.
For more information on demisting and defrosting the rear screen, refer to the corresponding section.
Rear view mirror
Adjustable mirror providing a central rearward view.
Equipped with an anti-dazzle system, which darkens the mirror glass and reduces the nuisance to the driver caused by the sun, headlamps from other vehicles...
TE ee
N oÑ
W i
E = _) Adjustment
ze Adjust the mirror so that the glass is directed correctly in the "day" position.
Day / night position
ze Pull the lever to change to the "night" anti- dazzle position.
e Push the lever to change to the normal "day" position.
Comfort
63
Comfort
Steering wheel adjustment Correct driving position
Before taking to the road and to make the most of the ergonomics of your driving position, carry out these adjustments in the following order:
- height of the head restraint,
- backrest angle,
- cushion height,
- longitudinal position of the seat,
- height of the steering wheel,
- the interior and door mirrors.
 
=| When stationary, lower the control lever A to release the steering wheel adjustment mechanism.
ze Adjust the height of the steering wheel to suit your driving position.
ze Raise the control lever A to lock the steering wheel adjustment mechanism.
As a safety precaution, these operations should only be carried out while the vehicle is stationary.
 
Once these adjustments have been made, ensure that from your driving position you can see the instrument panel clearly.
 
Ventilation Air intake
The air circulating in the passenger compartment is filtered and originates either from the outside via the grille located at the base of the windscreen or from the inside in air recirculation mode.
Air treatment
The incoming air follows various routes
depending on the controls selected by the
driver:
- direct arrival in the passenger compartment (air intake),
- passage through a heating circuit (heating),
- passage through a cooling circuit (air conditioning).
Control panel
The controls of this system are ER ° accessible in the "Air conditioning" menu of the touch screen tablet A.
The demisting/defrosting controls for the windscreen and rear screen are located below the touch screen tablet.
© ER
Air distribution
1. Windscreen demisting-defrosting vents.
2. Front side window demisting/defrosting vents.
3. Adjustable side air vent (driver only).
Comfort
4. Central adjustable air vents. 5. Air outlets for the front footwells. 6. Air outlets for the rear footwells.
65
66
Comfort
 
Recommendations for ventilation and air conditioning
In order for these systems to be fully effective, follow the operation and maintenance guidelines below:
i
Se
To obtain an even air distribution, take care not to obstruct the exterior air intake grilles located at the base of the windscreen, the nozzles, the vents and the air outlets, as well as the air extractor located in the boot.
Do not cover the sunshine sensor, located on the dashboard; this is used for regulation of the air conditioning system.
Operate the air conditioning system for at least 5 to 10 minutes, once or twice a month to keep it in perfect working order.
Ensure that the passenger compartment filter is in good condition and have the filter elements replaced regularly.
We recommend the use of a combined passenger compartment filter. Thanks to its special active additive, it contributes to the purification of the air breathed by the occupants and the cleanliness of the passenger compartment (reduction of allergic symptoms, bad odours and greasy deposits).
To ensure correct operation of the air conditioning system, you are also advised to have it checked regularly as recommended in the maintenance and warranty guide.
If the system does not produce cold air, switch it off and contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
When towing the maximum load on a steep gradient in high temperatures, switching off the air conditioning increases the available engine power and so improves the towing ability.
Ee
=e
If after an extended stop in sunshine, the interior temperature is very high, first ventilate the passenger compartment for a few moments.
Put the air flow control at a setting high enough to quickly change the air in the passenger compartment.
The air conditioning system does not contain chlorine and does not present any danger to the ozone layer.
The condensation created by the air conditioning results in a discharge of water under the vehicle which is perfectly normal.
Stop & Start
The heating and air conditioning systems only work when the engine
is running. To maintain a comfortable temperature in the passenger compartment, you can temporarily deactivate the Stop & Start system (see the corresponding section).
 
Heating
The heating system works only when the engine is running.
* Select the "Air conditioning" Temperature adjustment gs We menu in the touch screen tablet
to display the controls page for the system.
EN emm zm cl Ak mmm , of, = Press one of these buttons
! or move the cursor from blue (cold) to red (hot) to adjust the | | me temperature to your wishes. E
 
 
 
Comfort
Air flow adjustment
a e Press one of these buttons to increase or decrease the air flow
from the system. Pë
The symbol for air flow (a fan) fills progressively according to the air flow setting made.
By reducing the air flow to the minimum, you are stopping ventilation of the passenger compartment.
} Avoid driving for too long without ° ventilation (risk of misting and deterioration of air quality).
67
68
Comfort
Air distribution adjustment
You can vary the air distribution in the passenger compartment using these three buttons.
o Windscreen.
=
o ù
Centre and side vents.
o Footwells.
&=
KL
Each press of a button activates or deactivates the function.
= Foran even distribution of air in the passenger compartment, the three buttons can be activated simultaneously.
Air intake / Air recirculation
The intake of exterior air prevents and eliminates misting of the windscreen and side windows.
The recirculation of interior air prevents exterior odours and smoke entering the passenger compartment.
°- This function can also be used temporarily to speed up the heating of the air in the passenger compartment.
æ Press this button to recirculate { y the interior air.
* Press this button again to allow the intake of exterior air.
Avoid the prolonged use of recirculation of the interior air (risk of misting and deterioration of air quality).
 
Comfort
Manual air conditioning
The air conditioning system operates with the engine running.
g0 ` * Select the "Air conditioning" Temperature adjustment Air flow adjustment
menu in the touch screen tablet
to display the controls page for the system.
 
e Press one of these buttons or ap move the cursor blue (cold) to red (hot) to adjust the
temperature to your liking.
a e Press one of these buttons to increase or decrease the air flow.
 
The symbol for air flow (a fan) fills progressively according to the air flow setting made.
By reducing the air flow to minimum, you are stopping ventilation.
į Avoid driving too long without ventilation ° (risk of misting and deterioration of air quality).
69
Comfort
Air distribution adjustment
You can modulate the distribution of air in the passenger compartment using these three buttons.
o Windscreen.
=>
KL
o Central and side vents.
4
o Footwells.
&
d
Each press on a button activates or deactivates the function.
= Fora uniform distribution of air in the passenger compartment, the three buttons can be activated simultaneously.
Fresh air intake / Air recirculation
The intake of fresh air avoids and eliminates misting of the windscreen and side windows. Recirculation of the interior air isolates the passenger compartment from exterior odours and fumes.
e This function can also be used temporarily to speed up the heating or cooling of the passenger compartment.
tO * Press this button again to allow the intake of exterior air.
e Press this button to recirculate the interior air.
} Avoid the prolonged use of interior air recirculation (risk of misting and deterioration of air quality).
 
Air conditioning On / Off
The air conditioning is designed to operate effectively in all seasons, with the windows closed. It enables you to:
- lower the temperature, in summer, - increase the effectiveness of the demisting in winter, above 3°C.
Switching on
e Press this button to switch on the air conditioning.
A/C
© The air conditioning does not operate when the air flow adjustment is set to off.
Switching off
ze Press this button again to switch off the air conditioning.
A/C
 
Automatic air conditioning
Comfort
This air conditioning system operates with the engine running, but the ventilation and its controls are available with the ignition on.
Operation of the air conditioning and regulation Temperatu re adjustment
of temperature, air flow and air distribution in the passenger compartment are automatic.
zc Select the "Air conditioning" gs We menu in the touch screen tablet to display the controls page for the system.
IS ix + e Press one of this button to P AIC ae D8 8 ch increase the value. e Press one of this button to =
decrease the value.
z E Ir 5 i The value indicated corresponds to a
level of comfort and not to a precise temperature.
Automatic comfort programme 4
Activation / Deactivation
Press the "AUTO" button to activate or deactivate the automatic mode of the air conditioning system.
AUTO
The air conditioning system operates automatically: the system manages the temperature, air flow and air distribution in the passenger compartment in an optimum way according to the comfort level you have selected.
71
Comfort
Automatic programme mode setting
* Go to the secondary page > | by pressing this button to
modulate the automatic comfort programme, choosing one of the modes offered.
ae
72
To change the current setting press the button for the desired mode:
"Soft": provides soft and quiet EH operation by limiting air flow.
"Normal": offers the best EE compromise between a comfortable 1 temperature and quiet operation (default setting).
"Fast": provides strong and effective air flow.
UU D)
This setting is associated with AUTO mode only. However, on deactivation of AUTO mode, the last setting used remains on.
Changing the setting does not reactivate AUTO mode if deactivated.
In cold weather with the engine cold, the air flow is increased gradually until the system has warmed up, in order to limit the delivery of cold air into the passenger compartment.
On entering the vehicle, if the interior temperature is much colder or warmer than the comfort value setting, there is no need to alter the value displayed in order to reach more quickly the required level of comfort. The system compensates automatically and corrects the temperature difference as quickly as possible.
Resuming manual control
You can manually adjust the air flow and distribution.
As soon as you modify a setting, the automatic comfort programme is deactivated.
e Press the "AUTO" button to activate the automatic comfort programme again.
AUTO
Air flow adjustment
a e Press one of these buttons to increase or decrease the air flow.
The symbol for air flow (a fan) fills progressively according to the air flow setting made.
By reducing the air flow to minimum, you are stopping ventilation.
"OFF" is displayed alongside the fan.
) Avoid driving for too long with the ° ventilation off (risk of misting and deterioration of air quality).
Comfort
3
Air distribution adjustment
You can modulate the distribution of air in the passenger compartment using these three buttons.
Windscreen.
O
T
X
Centre and side vents.
4 O
Footwells.
e O
X
Each press on a button activates or deactivates the function.
a For a uniform distribution in the passenger compartment, all three buttons can be pressed simultaneously.
73
74
Comfort
Air conditioning On/Off
The air conditioning is designed to operate efficiently in all seasons, with the windows closed.
It allows you:
- in Summer, to lower the temperature,
- in winter, above 3 °C, to improve demisting.
Switching on e Press this button to switch on the A/C air conditioning.
- The air conditioning cannot operate when the air flow is set to off.
Switching off ze Press this button again to switch A/C off the air conditioning.
Air intake/Air recirculation
The intake of exterior air avoids and eliminated misting of the windscreen and side windows.
The recirculation of interior air prevents exterior odours and smoke from entering the passenger compartment.
= This function also allows faster heating or cooling of the air in the passenger
compartment. ~ e Press this button to recirculate tI the interior air.
ze Press this button again to allow the intake of exterior air.
į} Avoid the prolonged use of interior ° air recirculation (risk of misting and deterioration of air quality).
Ventilation with "ignition on" function
With the ignition on, you can use the ventilation system and have access to the "Air conditioning" menu to adjust the air flow and air distribution in the passenger compartment. This function is available for a few minutes, depending on the state of charge of the battery of your vehicle.
This function does not activate the air conditioning.
You can make use of the residual heat in the engine to warm the passenger compartment using the temperature setting buttons.
Front Demist - Defrost
KA
 
N
 
Switching on
* Press this button to demist or $? defrost the windscreen and side windows as quickly as possible. The indicator lamp in the button comes on.
The system automatically manages the air conditioning (depending on version), air
flow and air intake, and provides optimum distribution towards the windscreen and side windows.
Switching off
* To switch off demisting, press SHY this button again, the indicator lamp goes off.
Comfort
With Stop & Start, when demisting has been activated, the STOP mode is not available.
5
75
76
Comfort
Rear screen demist - defrost
| EI
Switching on
ze Press this button to demist/ bo defrost the rear screen and (depending on version) the door mirrors. The indicator lamp in the button comes on.
Switching off
The demisting/defrosting switches off automatically to prevent an excessive consumption of current.
* Itis possible to stop the bo demisting/defrosting operation before it is switched off automatically by pressing this button again. The indicator lamp in the button goes off.
þm o
 
Switch off the heating of the rear screen and door mirrors as soon as you judge it possible, as reducing the consumption of electrical current reduces fuel consumption.
The rear screen demist - defrost can only operate when the engine is running.
 
Interior fittings with manual gearbox
A 2.
oo
a
Sun visor.
Glove box.
It houses an auxiliary socket and a USB port (depending on version).
12 V (120 W) accessory socket. USB port.
Open storage.
Cup holder.
Front armrest with storage. (depending on version).
Front door pockets.
Mat.
 
Fittings
 
4
77
78
Fittings
Interior fittings with electronic gearbox
1
2.
ei mb té
Sun visor.
Glove box.
It houses an auxiliary socket and a USB port (depending on version).
12 V (120 W) accessory socket. USB port.
Open storage.
Cup holder.
Front armrest.
Front door pockets.
Mat.
 
 
Sun visor
 
a nn} J
ep ` L p bo
Component to protect against sunlight from the front or the side.
The driver's sun visor is fitted with a vanity mirror, with concealing flap and a card (or ticket) holder.
Glove box
 
It can be used to hold a water bottle, the vehicle's handbook pack...
ze To open the glove box, raise the lid.
i It houses an auxiliary socket, a USB port (depending on equipment) and the front passenger airbag deactivation switch.
Fittings
12 V accessory socket
© 4
* To connect a 12 V accessory (maximum power: 120 Watts), lift the cover and connect a suitable adaptor.
į Do not exceed the maximum power ° rating of the socket (risk of damage to your device).
79
Fittings
USB port(s)*
 
A
D
It allows the connection of a portable device or a USB memory stick.
It reads the audio files which are sent to your audio system and played via the vehicle's speakers.
You can manage these files using the steering mounted controls or the audio system.
* Depending on version.
80
=e
=T]
ki e
When a USB port is used, the portable device charges automatically.
For more information on using this equipment, refer to the "Audio and telematics" section.
For best reception, it is recommended that the "CITROEN MULTICITY CONNECT" connection key be plugged into the USB port located in the glove box (depending on version).
Auxiliary socket
Vir T Ma "Sa, F
It permits the connection of a portable device to listen to your music files using the vehicle's speakers.
The management of the files is done using your portable device.
e For more information on the use of this equipment, refer to the "Audio and telematics" section.
Front armrest
 
Manual gearbox (depending on equipment)
LS"
For access to the closed storage box, lift the lever to open the lid.
For access to the open storage box below the armrest, lift the complete armrest towards the rear.
These storage spaces can be used to house portable devices (mobile phone, MP3 player...) which can be connected to the USB port / auxiliary socket or charged from the 12 V socket in the centre console.
\\ \ P i i 1 S d.)
 
Electronic gearbox
The armrest can be inclined forwards to benefit from its comfort or folded completely backwards.
Coat hooks
 
They are located above each rear door.
 
Fittings
81
Fittings
Mats
Removable carpet protection.
= ` d Dës, e ; "Dës, ?
Dee, "Së, = ap Bee, F a, i
we
Fitting
When fitting the mat for the first time, on the driver's side use only the fixings provided. The other mats are simply placed on the carpet.
82
Removal
To remove the mat on the driver's side:
æ move the seat as far back as possible, = unclip the fixings,
e remove the mat.
Refitting
To refit the mat on the driver's side: * position the mat correctly, = refit the fixings by pressing,
ze check that the mat is secured correctly.
To avoid any risk of jamming of the
pedals:
- only use mats which are suited to the fixings already present in the vehicle; these fixings must be used,
- never fit one mat on top of another.
The use of mats not approved by
CITROEN may interfere with access to
the pedals and hinder the operation of
the cruise control / speed limiter.
The mats approved by CITROEN have
two fixings located below the seat.
Fittings
 
= D = V © = = O wn O © BS © _ =) O © wn O + CH © O S © + E
EEN e E o GE o o O c = D E E — oS D E o O) . © a A ES D el? | O
Rear parcel shelf.
2. Hook.
4. Storage net (accessory).
Boot fittings 5. Storage net fixing rings.
1.
3. Storage box.
   
      
    
ant TN RYAN ANY WW, OT: IW
Li j)
7 `
   
a
,
            
EN
 
           
        
 
  
ul Unden tf Kë A4 GE i :
          
 
83
84
Fittings
Rear parcel shelf
 
To remove the shelf: e unhook the two cords, ze raise the shelf slightly, then remove it.
There are several options for storing the shelf: - either upright behind the front seats, - or flat at the base of the boot.
Hook
It can be used to secure shopping bags.
Storage box
 
ze Remove the boot carpet for access to the storage box.
Depending on the configuration, it is laid out for storing:
- atowing eye,
- atemporary puncture repair kit,
- awarning triangle,
f} For versions with storage box: it must be in place before loading the boot.
 
Warning triangle (storage)
The triangle may be stowed under the boot carpet (in the storage well) or, depending on version, under the front passenger seat.
f} Before leaving your vehicle to set up
° and install the triangle, switch on the hazard warning lamps and put on your high visibility vest.
Py, Z h d A s d A F w h, L ah AN Z d bo A i A wf CN ` = a L SS? 33 i ee "mm EES SE el "zs E we we B W W
= Refer to the manufacturer's instructions on using the triangle.
Placing the triangle in the road
e Place the triangle behind the vehicle, as required by the legislation in force in your country.
= The triangle is available as an accessory; contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
Fittings
85
86
Driving
starting - Stopping the engine
Starting
 
ze Insert the key in the ignition switch. The system recognises the starting code. e Turn the key fully towards the dashboard to position 3 (Starting). e When the engine starts, release the key.
Switching off
e I|Immobilise the vehicle.
e Turn the key fully towards you to position 1 (Stop).
ze Remove the key from the ignition switch.
{ Avoid attaching heavy objects to the key, which could pull down in it when in the ignition switch and cause faults.
pe
Key left in the "Ignition on" position
On opening the driver's door, an alert message is displayed, accompanied by an audible signal, to remind you that the key is still in the ignition switch at position 1 (Stop).
If the key has been left in the ignition switch at position 2 (Ignition on),
the ignition will be switched off automatically after one hour.
To switch the ignition back on, turn the key to position 1 (Stop), then back to position 2 (Ignition on).
 
Parking brake
Application
 
e Pull the parking brake lever up to
immobilise your vehicle.
Driving
Release When the vehicle is being driven, O if this warning lamp and the STOP
warning lamp come on, accompanied by an audible signal and a message =I) —— in the screen, this indicates that the
E i parking brake is still on or has not been fully released.
When parking on a slope, direct your 5
ay,
wheels against the kerb, apply the parking brake, engage a gear and switch off the ignition.
 
e Pull the parking brake lever up slightly, press the release button, then lower the lever fully.
87
88
 
Driving
5-speed manual gearbox Engaging reverse gear
į} Only engage reverse gear when the ° vehicle is stationary with the engine at idle. i As a safety precaution and to facilitate
starting of the engine: - always select neutral, - press the clutch pedal.
ze Press the clutch pedal fully down. e Push the gear lever fully to the right then backwards.
 
Driving
Gear shift indicator
System which reduces fuel consumption by advising the driver to change up, on vehicles fitted with a manual gearbox.
Operation
Depending on the driving situation and your vehicle's equipment, the system may advise you to skip one (or more) gear(s). You can e wë follow this instruction without engaging the [ intermediate gears.
The gear engagement recommendations must = not be considered compulsory. In fact, the configuration of the road, the amount of traffic and safety remain determining factors when choosing the best gear. Therefore, the driver remains responsible for deciding whether or not to follow the advice given by the system.
This system cannot be deactivated.
The system adapts its gear change recommendation according to the driving conditions (slope, load, ...) and
the demands of the driver (power, 5
=e
acceleration, braking, ...). The system never suggests: - engaging first gear,
- engaging reverse gear, - engaging a lower gear.
Example: - You are in third gear.
- You press the accelerator pedal.
- The system may suggest that you engage a higher gear.
The information appears in the instrument panel in the form of an arrow, accompanied by the recommended gear.
89
90
Driving
Electronic gearbox
Five or six-speed electronically controlled gearbox which offers the comfort of automatic control of the gears, without any action by the driver. You can temporarily take control of gear changes at any time, using the steering mounted control paddles.
  
  
 
 
Control panel Steering mounted controls Display in the instrument panel -F 72 2 D i a (EEN een — EO N Neutral: with your foot on the brake, press ze Press the back of the paddle to N Neutral this control to put the gearbox into neutral the right of the steering wheel to Dand12345/6 Drive (forward drive) and and for starting the engine. change up. the gear engaged. D Drive: press this control to engage forward R Reverse drive with automatic operation of the gears, æ Press the back of the paddle to R Reverse: with your foot on the brake, press © the left of the steering wheel to o Place your foot on the brake this control to engage reverse change down. (Géi when this warning lamp flashes.
= The steering mounted paddles do not allow neutral to be selected, or reverse gear to be engaged or disengaged.
 
Moving off
Se
LS"
Switch on the ignition. Select neutral (control N).
The indicator lamp for the control comes on.
Press the brake pedal fully. Start the engine.
You must keep your foot on the brake pedal while starting the engine.
The "Foot on the brake" warning and the associated control panel indicator lamp flash if the brake pedal is not pressed when starting the engine. Press firmly on the brake pedal.
N appears in the instrument panel.
 
N flashes in the instrument panel, accompanied by an audible signal and a message if the control N has not been pressed for starting.
Press control N to select neutral.
i
ze Select forward drive (control D) or reverse (control R) The associated indicator lamp comes on in the control panel.
D and 1 or R appear in the instrument panel.
 
ze Release the parking brake.
ze Progressively take your foot off the brake pedal. The vehicle moves off.
Driving
Creep function
This function allows the vehicle to be manoeuvred more easily at low speeds (when parking, in traffic jams...).
After pressing control D or R, the vehicle moves as soon as you take your foot off the brake pedal, at low speed and with the engine at idle.
į} Do not leave children unsupervised
° inside the vehicle when the engine is running.
i The creep function may be temporarily
unavailable if the clutch temperature is too high or the slope too steep.
91
92
Driving
Forward drive
e Press control D.
The indicator lamp in the control comes on.
D and the gear engaged appear in the instrument panel.
 
The gearbox then operates in auto-adaptive mode, without any action on the part of the driver. It continuously selects the most suitable gear taking account of:
- optimisation of fuel consumption,
- driving style,
- road conditions,
- vehicle load.
For optimum acceleration, when overtaking another vehicle for example, press the accelerator pedal fully down, beyond the point of resistance.
kee
į} Never select neutral (position N) when ° moving. ! Do not press the brake and accelerator
pedals at the same time: this could Cause very rapid wear of the clutch.
‘tea T EZ
Temporary control of gear changing
You can temporarily take over control of gear changes using the steering mounted "+" and "-" control paddles: if the engine speed allows, the gear change is carried out.
This function allows you to anticipate certain situations such as overtaking another vehicle or approaching a bend.
After a few moments without any action on the paddles, the gearbox resumes control of gear changing automatically.
Reverse
To engage reverse, the vehicle must be immobilised with your foot on the brake. * Press control R.
The indicator lamp in the control comes on.
= There is an audible signal on engagement of reverse.
If reverse gear is requested when moving,
the N warning lamp flashes and the gearbox goes into neutral automatically.
To engage reverse, stop the vehicle and press control N, then R, with your foot on the brake pedal.
Stopping the vehicle
Before switching off the engine:
press control N to be in neutral,
leave the vehicle in gear; in this case the vehicle cannot be moved.
For all parking situations, you must apply the parking brake to immobilise the vehicle.
When immobilising the vehicle with the engine running, you must select neutral N.
Before doing anything under the bonnet, ensure that control N has been pressed and that the parking brake is applied.
Reinitialisation
(5-speed electronic gearbox)
Following disconnection of the battery, it is necessary to reinitialise the gearbox.
* Switch on the ignition.
- - - appears in the instrument panel.
 
e Press control N.
ze Press the brake pedal.
e Wait for around 30 seconds until N or a gear appears in the instrument panel.
ze Press control D, then N.
|æ With your foot still on the brake pedal, start the engine.
The gearbox is operational again.
e In exceptional circumstances, the ` gearbox may need an automatic reinitialisation: starting and gear changing are no longer possible.
- - - appears in the instrument panel.
 
Follow the procedure described above.
Driving
Operating fault
With the ignition on, illumination of
SERVICE this warning lamp, accompanied by an audible signal and a message, indicates a gearbox fault.
Have it checked by a CITROEN dealer or a 5 qualified workshop.
93
94
Driving
Hill start assist
System which keeps your vehicle immobilised
temporarily (approximately 2 seconds) when
starting on a gradient, the time it takes to
move your foot from the brake pedal to the
accelerator pedal.
This system only operates when:
- the vehicle is completely stationary, with your foot on the brake pedal,
- certain conditions of slope are met,
- with the driver’s door closed.
The hill start assist system cannot be
deactivated.
Do not leave the vehicle while it is being held in the hill start assist phase.
If you need to exit the vehicle with
the engine running, apply the parking brake.
Operation
On an ascending slope, with the vehicle
stationary, the vehicle is held momentarily
when you release the brake pedal, provided
that:
- you are in first gear or neutral with a manual gearbox,
- you are in position D with an electronic gearbox.
 
On a descending slope, with the vehicle stationary and reverse gear engaged, the vehicle is held momentarily when you release the brake pedal.
Operating fault
E
ee
If a fault in the system occurs, these warning lamps come on, accompanied by an alert message. Contact a CITROËN dealer or
a qualified workshop to have the system checked.
SERVICE
 
stop & Start
Driving
The Stop & Start system puts the engine temporarily into standby - STOP mode - during stops in the traffic (red lights, traffic jams, or other...). The engine restarts automatically - START mode - as soon as you want to move off. The restart takes place instantly, quickly and silently. Perfect for urban use, the Stop & Start system reduces fuel consumption and exhaust emissions as well as the noise level when stationary.
Operation Going into engine STOP mode The "ECO" warning lamp comes on
in the instrument panel and the engine goes into standby automatically:
ECO
- with a manual gearbox, when stationary, in neutral, and you release the clutch pedal.
- with an electronic gearbox, when stationary or at speeds below 5 mph (8 km/h) (depending on version), in neutral (control on N) or when you press the brake pedal.
Stop & Start time counter
`, A cumulative time counter for periods JECO in STOP mode during a journey.
It is displayed in the trip computer (accessible via the "Driving assistance" menu of the touch screen tablet).
It resets to zero every time the ignition is switched on.
[=e
For your comfort, during parking manoeuvres, STOP mode is not available for a few seconds after coming out of reverse gear.
STOP mode does not affect the functionalities of the vehicle, such as for example, braking, power steering...
Never refuel with the engine in STOP mode; you must switch off the ignition with the button.
Special cases: STOP mode not
available STOP mode is not invoked principally when:
ECO
>
the driver's door is open,
the driver's seat belt is not fastened,
the vehicle has not exceeded 6 mph
(10 km/h) since the last engine start by the driver,
the engine is needed to maintain a comfortable temperature in the passenger compartment,
demisting is active,
some special conditions (battery charge, engine temperature, braking assistance, ambient temperature...) where the engine is needed to assure control of a system.
In this case, the "ECO" warning lamp flashes for a few seconds then goes off.
This operation is perfectly normal.
95
96
Driving
Going into engine START mode
ECO The "ECO" warning lamp goes off and the engine starts automatically:
- with a manual gearbox, when you fully
depress the clutch pedal.
- with an electronic gearbox:
e control on D, when you release the brake pedal,
e control on N and brake pedal released, when you press control D,
e when you engage reverse.
Special cases: START invoked automatically
START mode is invoked automatically when:
- you open the the driver's door,
- you unfasten the driver's seat belt,
- the speed of the vehicle exceeds 7 mph (11 km/h) with an electronic gearbox, some special conditions (battery charge, engine temperature, braking assistance, ambient temperature...) where the engine is needed for control of a system.
In this case the "ECO" warning lamp flashes for a few seconds, then goes off.
ECO
This operation is perfectly normal.
 
Maintenance
į Before doing anything under the
°” bonnet, deactivate the Stop & Start system to avoid any risk of injury resulting from automatic operation of START mode.
ATTENTION
WA PUP Pc
This system requires a 12 V battery witha special specification and technology (reference numbers available from CITROEN dealers). Fitting a battery not listed by
CITROEN introduces the risk of malfunction of the system.
For charging, use a 12 V charger and do not reverse the polarity.
The Stop & Start system makes use of advanced technology. For any work on the system go to a qualified workshop with the skills and equipment required, which a CITROEN dealer is able to provide.
 
Deactivation
gen O| or |
The Stop & Start system can be deactivated in the touch screen tablet.
=
eco © Press on "Stop & Start". OFF
* Select the "Driving assistance menu.
The indicator lamp in this button comes on continuously.
If the system has been deactivated in STOP mode, the engine restarts immediately.
i When driving on a flooded road, it is recommended that the Stop & Start function be deactivated and that you drive very slowly.
Reactivation
The system can be reactivated in the touch screen tablet.
geco Pressing this button again reactivates OFF the Stop & Start system. The indicator lamp in the button goes off.
e The system is reactivated automatically every time the engine is started by the driver.
Driving
Operating fault
=
A fault with the system is signalled in the "Driving assistance" menu (primary page) of the touch screen tablet.
geco Inthe event of a fault with the
OFF system, the indicator lamp in the Stop & Start button flashes for a few moments, the stays on continuously.
5
If you press this button to reactivate the system, the indicator lamp flashes again for a few moments and then stays on continuously.
Have it checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
In the event of a fault in STOP mode, the vehicle may stall. All of the instrument panel warning lamps come on.
Depending on version, an alert message may also be displayed, asking you to change to neutral (control on N) and put your foot on the brake pedal.
You must switch off the ignition, then start the engine again.
97
Driving NN
speed limiter
System which prevents the vehicle from exceeding the speed programmed by the driver.
į The programmed speed remains in the system Steering mounted controls Display in the instrument panel
memory when the ignition is switched off.
The speed limiter cannot, in any circumstances, replace the need to observe speed limits,
 
nor can it replace the need for vigilance and a responsibility on the part of the driver. gyi d UMIT The controls are grouped together at the The information is grouped together in the steering wheel. instrument panel. 1. Speed limiter mode selection wheel. 6. Speed limiter on / pause indication. 2. Value decrease button. 7. Speed value setting. 3. Value increase button. 8. Speed limiter mode selection indication. 4. Speed limiter on / pause button. 5. List of memorised speeds display button.
Switching on / Pause
s The speed limiter is switched on manually: it requires a programmed speed of at least 20 mph (30 km/h).
QT n
Le =
d Ce Wé fom HE) OZ e
e Turn wheel 1 to the "LIMIT" position: the speed limiter mode is selected but is not switched on (Pause).
e Switch the speed limiter back on by pressing button 4, if the speed displayed is Suitable (by default, the last soeed programmed).
+} You can temporarily stop the the speed limiter by pressing button 4 again: the display confirms that it has been stopped (Pause).
Adjusting the speed limit setting
You do not have to switch the speed limiter on in order to set the speed.
After first selecting speed limiter mode (wheel 1 in position "LIMIT"), you can modify the speed setting by:
a press on button 5:
= the six soeeds memorised are displayed in the touch screen tablet,
= choosing a speed: it is displayed in the instrument panel. The selection screen closes after a few moments.
using buttons 2 and 3, increasing or
decreasing the speed displayed:
= by successive short presses, to modify by + or - Y% mph (1 km/h),
* by a maintained press, to modify in steps of + or - 3 mph (5 km/h).
Driving
5
Speed limits can be memorised in the "Driving assistance" menu.
For more information on the list of memorised speeds, refer to the "Memorising speeds" section.
=e
99
100
Driving
Temporarily exceeding the programmed speed
ze Press firmly on the accelerator pedal, going beyond the point of resistance, to exceed the programmed speed limit.
The speed limiter is deactivated temporarily
and the displayed programmed speed flashes.
An audible signal accompanies the flashing of the programmed speed when exceeding the speed is not due to an action by the driver (steep hill...).
Fe
As soon as the vehicle's speed returns to the programmed value, the limiter operates again: the display of the programmed speed becomes steady again.
Switching off
e Turn wheel 1 to the "0" position. The display of information related to the speed limiter disappears.
Operating fault
Flashing of the dashes indicates a fault with the speed limiter.
Have it checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
e, (OS
T EY un
 
On sharp acceleration, as when
descending a steep hill, the speed
limiter will not be able to prevent
the vehicle from exceeding the
programmed speed.
The limiter is temporarily deactivated
and the displayed programmed speed
flashes.
An audible signal accompanies the
flashing of the programmed speed
when exceeding the speed is not due to
an action by the driver.
The use of mats not approved by
CITROEN may interfere with the
operation of the speed limiter.
To avoid any risk of jamming of the
pedals:
- ensure that the matis secured correctly,
- dọ not fit one mat on top of another.
 
Driving
Cruise control
System which automatically maintains the speed of the vehicle at the value programmed by the driver, without any action on the accelerator pedal.
į Switching off the ignition cancels any Steering mounted controls Display in the instrument panel
programmed speed value.
The cruise control system cannot, in any
circumstances, replace the need to observe speed iz : a mg mph | limits, nor can it replace the need for vigilance and i a P kmh Bo
responsibility on the part of the driver. You are advised to keep your feet near the pedals at all times.
YKJ CRUISE
 
The controls of this system are grouped The information is grouped together in the together at the steering wheel. instrument panel. 1. Cruise control mode selection wheel. 6. Cruise control pause / resume indication. 2. Decrease value or speed setting on the fly 7. Cruise speed setting.
button. 8. Cruise control mode selection indication. 3. Increase value or speed setting on the fly
button.
4. Cruise control pause / resume button. 5. Memorised speeds display button.
101
Driving
Switching on
e The cruise control is switched on manually: it requires a minimum vehicle speed of 25 mph (40 km/h).
ATP
=!
CHA
CG J = “o
~
ze Turn wheel 1 to the "CRUISE" position: the cruise control mode is selected but is not switched on (Pause).
ze Press button 2 or 3 : your vehicle's current speed becomes the cruise speed (selected on the fly).
The cruise control is activated (ON).
102
Modification of the initial speed setting
If the cruise control is switched on, you can then modify the initial speed in one of the following ways: - pressing button 5: * the six memorised speeds are displayed in the the touch screen tablet, * choose a value: it is displayed in the instrument panel. The selection screen closes after a few moments. The modification is then accepted.
Or by: - using buttons 2 or 3: = by successive short presses, to modify the speed by + or - 1 mph (km/h), * by along press, to modify the speed in steps of + or - 5 mph (km/h),
kee
The memorised speeds can be programmed in the "Driving assistance" menu.
For more information on the list of memorised speeds, refer to the "Memorising speeds" section.
Pause
i The cruise control is paused manually or by pressing the brake or clutch pedal or if the ESP system is invoked for safety reasons.
Once switched on, you can pause the cruise control at any time by pressing button 4: the screen confirms the pause.
Exceeding the programmed speed
It is possible to exceed the programmed speed temporarily by pressing the accelerator pedal. To return to the programmed speed, simply release the accelerator pedal until the programmed cruise speed Is reached again.
°> Ifthe programmed speed is exceeded, the displayed speed flashes. Once the speed of the vehicle returns to the programmed speed, the display becomes steady again.
Switching off
e Turn wheel 1 to the "0" position. The display of information related to the cruise control disappears.
Operating fault
Flashing of the dashes indicates a fault with the cruise control.
Have it checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
=k. PAUSE
     
Des CRUISE
Driving
When the cruise control is switched on, be careful if you maintain the pressure on one of the programmed speed changing buttons: this may result in a very rapid change in the speed of your
vehicle. Do not use the cruise control on
slippery roads or in heavy traffic.
On a steep descent, the cruise control
will not be able to prevent the vehicle
from exceeding the programmed speed.
On steep climbs or when towing, the
programmed speed may not be reached
or maintained.
The use of mats not approved by
CITROEN may interfere with the
operation of the cruise control.
To avoid any risk of jamming of the
pedals:
- ensure that the mat is secured correctly,
- never fit one mat on top of another.
103
Driving E
Memorising soeeds
This function allows speeds to be saved, which can then be offered to set the two systems: the speed limiter (to limit the speed of the vehicle) or the
cruise control (for a vehicle cruising speed). You can memorise up to six speed settings for each of the two systems. By default, some speeds are already memorised.
Memorisation This function is accessible in the touch screen tablet.
zc Select the "Driving assistance" ©) menu.
© ©
e Inthe secondary page, press
C) "Speed settings".
 
* Select the system for which you want to * Enter the new value using the numerical
memorise speeds: keypad and confirm. ae * Confirm to save the modification and quit e speed limiter or ef the menu. a e cruise control. į For safety reasons, the driver must CG? ° carry out these operations when stationary.
* Choose the speed setting you want to modify. This button restores the factory
Lë settings.
104
 
Parking sensors
KN E
kA d
D Se
This system indicates the proximity of an obstacle (person, vehicle, tree, gate, etc.) which comes within the field of detection of sensors located in the bumper.
Certain types of obstacle (stake, roadworks cone, etc.) detected initially will no longer be detected at the end of the manoeuvre due to the presence of blind spots.
f This function cannot, in any circumstances, take the place of the
vigilance and responsibility of the driver.
Rear parking sensors
The system is switched on by engaging reverse gear. This is accompanied by an audible signal. The system is switched off when you come out of reverse gear.
 
Audible assistance
The proximity information is given by an intermittent audible signal, the frequency of which increases as the vehicle approaches the obstacle. The sound emitted by the speaker (right or
left) indicates the side on which the obstacle is located.
When the distance between the vehicle and
the obstacle becomes less than approximately thirty centimetres, the audible signal becomes continuous.
Driving
 
Visual assistance
This supplements the audible signal by displaying bars in the screen or the instrument panel which move progressively nearer to
the vehicle. When the obstacle is near, the "Danger" symbol is displayed.
105
Driving
Front parking sensors
In addition to the rear parking sensors, the front parking sensors are triggered when an obstacle is detected in front and the speed of the vehicle is still below 6 mph (10 km/h).
The front parking sensors are interrupted if the vehicle stops for more than three seconds in forward gear, if no further obstacles are detected or when the speed of the vehicle exceeds 6 mph (10 km/h).
=» The sound emitted by the speaker (front or rear) indicates whether the obstacle is in front or behind.
 
Deactivation / Activation of the front and rear parking sensors
The parking sensors can be deactivated in the touch screen tablet. EH * Select the "Driving assistance
menu. Py) a ze Press on "Parking sensors". OFF The indicator lamp in the button comes on.
Pressing this button again reactivates the system. The indicator lamp goes off.
i The system will be deactivated automatically if a trailer is being towed or a bicycle carrier is fitted on a towbar (vehicle fitted with a towbar installed in line with the manufacturer's recommendations).
i The parking sensors are deactivated while the Park Assist system is measuring a space.
See the "Park Assist" section.
Operating fault
In the event of a malfunction of SERVICE the system, when reverse gear is engaged this warning lamp is displayed in the instrument panel and/or a message appears, accompanied by an audible signal (short beep). Contact a CITROËN dealer or a qualified workshop.
a Inbad weather or in winter, ensure that the sensors are not covered with mud, ice or snow. When reverse gear is engaged, an audible signal (long beep) indicates that the sensors may be dirty. Certain sound sources (motorcycle, lorry, pneumatic drill, etc.) may trigger the audible signals of the parking sensor system.
High pressure jet wash When washing your vehicle, do not direct the lance within 30 cm of the sensors.
 
Reversing camera
e
The reversing camera is activated automatically when reverse gear is engaged.
The image Is displayed in the touch screen tablet.
i The reversing camera function may be completed with parking sensors.
The reversing camera cannot in any circumstances be a substitute for the vigilance and responsibility of the driver.
Driving
 
5
The space between the blue lines represents
l , į Opening the tailgate causes the display the width of your vehicle except for the door ° to disappear. mirrors. The blue lines represent the general direction of the vehicle. i Clean the reversing camera regularly
The red lines represent a distance of about
30 cm beyond the edge of your vehicle's
rear bumper. The audible signal becomes continuous from this limit.
The green lines represent distances of about 1 and 2 metres beyond the edge of your vehicle's rear bumper.
The turquoise blue curves represent the maximum turning circle.
using a soft, dry cloth.
High pressure jet washing When washing your vehicle, do not direct the lance within 30 cm of the camera lens.
107
108
Driving
Park Assist
This system provides active assistance with parking, detecting a parking space then controlling the steering to park in the space.
It controls the steering while the driver manages the accelerator, brakes, gears and clutch (manual gearbox). During phases of entry into and exit from a parking space, the system provides visual and audible information to the driver in order to make the manoeuvre safe. It may be necessary to move forwards and backwards more than once.
The driver can take control at any time by gripping the steering wheel.
The Park Assist system cannot in any circumstances replace the care and responsibility of the driver.
The driver must remain in control of their vehicle ensuring that the space remains clear during the manoeuvre. In some circumstances, the sensors may not detect small obstacles located in their blind spots.
During a manoeuvre the steering wheel turns quickly: do not hold the steering wheel, do not place your hand between the spokes of the steering wheel and take care with loose and bulky clothing, scarves, handbags... There is a risk of injury.
Bal e
For entry into a parking space (parallel parking) the system does not detect spaces which are clearly much smaller or larger than the size of the vehicle. This "parking assistance" system
is activated automatically during manoeuvres; it is therefore possible that a symbol comes on in the screen, accompanied by an audible signal, without affecting the manoeuvre.
Changing tyre sizes (out-size tyres, winter tyres, ...) can interfere with the correct operation of the parking assistance system.
 
The system provides assistance in entering and exiting a parking space when parallel parking.
°- The selection of the type of manoeuvre (entering or exiting a parallel parking space) prevents a change to STOP mode of Stop & Start. In STOP mode, this selection restarts the engine.
Entering a parallel parking space
e When you have identified a free space, reduce the speed of the vehicle to a maximum of 12 mph (20 km/h).
T= i e TE i joo K U i e mr — i ee
r ab
L J
* Position your vehicle before this space.
 
To activate the Park Assist system: ze Press this control to activate the system.
The indicator lamp in the control remains off.
OR
* Select the "Driving assistance" t=5 menu in the touch screen tablet.
P e Inthe secondary page, press on D "Park Assist".
A message is displayed in the screen.
* Select the enter parking space manoeuvre. The indicator lamp in the control comes on.
Driving
x — ew KE | Q zz Operate the direction indicator on the 5 parking side. NS
e Move forwards alongside the parking space at a speed below 12 mph (20 km/h) to measure it, keeping at a distance of between 0.5 and 1.5 metres from the row of parked vehicles.
Once measurement is complete, if the space is
large enough a message indicates that parking
is possible.
109
Driving
mp of
zc Move your vehicle forward until a new message is displayed.
 
* Select reverse and release the steering wheel.
110
AUTO dee
= (ay (ey oO = a =
The assisted parking manoeuvre is in progress.
Without exceeding 5 mph (8 km/h), continue the manoeuvres following the information given by the "parking assistance" system, until the end of manoeuvre message is displayed.
The indicator lamp in the control goes off, accompanied by a audible signal.
OFF
Aë SC e ai
 
The driver takes back control of the vehicle's steering.
Exit from a parallel parking space
e When you want to exit from a parallel parking space, start the engine.
col
 
Pe With the vehicle stationary, to activate the Park
Assist system:
ze Press this control. The indicator lamp in the control remains off.
OR
* Select the "Driving assistance" = menu in the touch screen tablet.
P ze Inthe secondary page, press on D "Park Assist".
A message is displayed in the screen.
Select the exit parking space manoeuvre.
The indicator lamp in the control comes on.
Operate the direction indicator on the exit from parking side.
The direction indicator warning lamp flashes in the instrument panel throughout the manoeuvre, whatever the position of the stalk.
Select a forward or reverse gear then release the steering wheel.
Driving
 
Ke GH The assisted exit from parking manoeuvre is in 5 progress.
Without exceeding 5 mph (8 km/h), continue the manoeuvres following the information given by the "parking assistance" system, until the end of manoeuvre message is displayed.
The manoeuvre is complete once the front wheels of the vehicle are out of the parking space.
The indicator lamp in the control goes off, accompanied by a audible signal.
wi OFF The driver takes back control of the vehicle's steering.
111
Driving
Deactivation
The system is deactivated automatically:
112
on switching off the ignition,
if the engine stalls,
if no manoeuvre is started within 5 minutes of selection of the type of manoeuvre,
after a prolonged stop of the vehicle during a manoeuvre,
if the road wheel anti-spin regulation (ASR) system is invoked,
if the speed of the vehicle exceeds the stated limit,
when the driver interrupts movement of the steering wheel,
if the driver presses the Park Assist control (or the Park Assist button of the Driving assistance menu in the touch screen tablet),
if correct positioning of the vehicle is not possible (too many manoeuvres needed to insert or extract the vehicle),
if the driver's door is open,
if one of the front wheels encounters an obstacle.
If the system is deactivated during a manoeuvre, the drive should reactivate it manually to repeat the measurement.
A message is displayed in the screen.
AN
OFF LL SS t
LG 5 F bi ee
wi 4
The driver then takes back control of the vehicle's steering.
Switching off
The system is switched off automatically:
- when towing a trailer,
- if the driver's door is opened,
- if the speed of the vehicle is above 42 mph (70 km/h).
To switch the system of for a prolonged period,
contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified
workshop.
Operating faults
SERVICE In the event ofa fault with the system, this warning lamp is displayed in the instrument panel and/or a message appears in the screen, accompanied by an audible signal (short beep). The indicator lamp in the control flashes for a few seconds. If the problem occurs while using the system, the indicator lamp goes off.
Contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
If the lateral distance between your vehicle and the space is too great, the system may not be able to measure the space. Anything projecting beyond the envelope of the vehicle (long or wide load) is not taken into account by the Park Assist system during a manoeuvre.
1 In bad weather and in winter, ensure that the sensors are not covered by road dirt, ice or snow.
In the event of a fault, have the system checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
 
Lighting control
System for selection and control of the various front and rear lamps providing the vehicle's lighting.
Additional lighting
Main lighting
The various front and rear lamps of the vehicle are designed to adapt the driver's visibility progressively according to the climatic conditions:
sidelamps, to be seen,
dipped beam headlamps to see without dazzling other drivers,
main beam headlamps to see clearly when the road is clear.
Other lamps are provided to meet the requirements of particular driving conditions:
a rear foglamp,
front foglamps with cornering lighting, daytime running lamps to be more visible during the day,
guide-me-home lighting to facilitate your exit from the vehicle,
parking lamps as vehicle position markers.
In the event of the failure of one or more bulbs, a message advises you to check the lamp(s) in question.
Visibility
113
Visibility
Selection ring for main lighting mode
Turn the ring to position the symbol required facing the mark.
Lee T ~~, SÉ
D j o KE
Model without AUTO lighting
 
 
Model with AUTO lighting
114
| O° Lighting off / Daytime running lamps.
Automatic illumination of headlamps.
ree Sidelamps only.
7 A
 
Dipped or main beam headlamps.
 
 
 
Dipping the headlamps
Pull the stalk to switch the lighting between dipped / main beam headlamps.
In the lighting off and sidelamps modes, the driver can switch on the main beam headlamps temporarily ("headlamp flash") by maintaining a pull on the stalk.
Displays
Illumination of the corresponding indicator lamp in the instrument panel confirms the lighting switched on.
Foglamps selection ring The foglamps operate with dipped and main beam headlamps.
   
= no. 0s Dog | j Lé i Cem Rear foglamp only "em Front foglamps and rear Awa foglamp V V ze To switch it on, turn the ring forwards. Rotate and release the ring: When the lighting is switched off automatically ® forwards a first time to switch on the front (with AUTO model), the foglamp and the dipped foglamps, beam headlamps will remain on. * forwards a second time to switch on the * To switch it off, turn the ring rearwards. rear foglamp, +| rearwards a first time to switch off the rear foglamp,
e rearwards a second time to switch of the front fog lamps.
Visibility
When the headlamps switch off with automatic
illumination of headlamps (AUTO model)
or when the dipped beam headlamps are
switched off manually, the foglamps and
sidelamps remain on.
* Turn the ring rearwards to switch off the foglamps, the sidelamps will then switch off.
115
116
Visibility
In good or rainy weather, both day
and night, the front foglamps and the rear foglamp are prohibited. In these situations, the power of their beams may dazzle other drivers. They should only be used in fog or snow.
In these weather conditions, it is your responsibility to switch on the foglamps and dipped beam headlamps manually as the sunshine sensor may detect sufficient light.
Do not forget to switch off the front foglamps and the rear foglamp when they are no longer necessary.
=e
Switching off the lamps when the ignition is switched off
On switching off the ignition, all of the lamps turn off immediately, except for dipped beam if guide-me-home lighting is activated.
Switching on the lamps after the ignition is switched off
To reactivate the lighting control, rotate the ring to the "0" position - lamps off, then to the desired position.
On opening the driver's door a temporary audible signal warns the driver that the lighting is on.
The lamps, with the exception of the sidelamps, switch off automatically after a maximum duration of thirty minutes to prevent discharging of the battery.
Automatic illumination of headlamps
Activation
ze Turn the ring to the "AUTO" position. The activation of the function is accompanied by the display of a message.
 
Deactivation
e Turn the ring to another position. Deactivation of the function is
accompanied by the display of a message.
When a low level of ambient light is detected by a sunshine sensor, the number plate
lamps, sidelamps and dipped beam headlamps are switched on automatically, without any action on the part of the driver. They can also come on if rain is detected, at the same time as automatic operation of the windscreen wipers. As soon as the brightness returns to a sufficient level or after the windscreen wipers are switched off, the lamps are switched off automatically.
Visibility
Operating fault
In the event of a malfunction of the SERVICE sunshine sensor, the lighting comes
on, this warning lamp is displayed in the instrument panel accompanied by an audible signal and/or a message.
Contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
fî In fog or snow, the sunshine sensor
" — may detect sufficient light. In this case, the lighting will not come on automatically. Do not cover the sunshine sensor, coupled with the rain sensor and located in the centre of the windscreen behind the rear view mirror; the associated functions would no longer be controlled.
117
Visibility
Daytime running lamps /Sidelamps
(LEDs) es
The light-emitting diodes (LEDs) come on They provide the following functions:
automatically when the engine is started. - Daytime running lamps (lighting control
stalk in position "0" or "AUTO" with adequate light level).
- Sidelamps (lighting control stalk in position "AUTO" with low light level or "Sidelamps only" or "Main or dipped beam headlamps").
- The LEDs are brighter when operating as daytime running lamps.
118
þm o
In some weather conditions (e.g. low temperature or humidity), the presence of misting on the internal surface of the glass of the headlamps and rear lamps is normal; it disappears after the lamps have been on for a few minutes.
Parking lamps
 
Side markers for the vehicle by illumination of
the sidelamps on the traffic side only.
e Within one minute of switching off the ignition, operate the lighting control stalk up or down depending on the traffic side (for example: when parking on the left; lighting control stalk upwards; the right hand sidelamps are on).
This is confirmed by an audible signal and
illumination of the corresponding direction
indicator warning lamp in the instrument panel.
To switch off the parking lamps, return the
lighting control stalk to the central position.
Guide-me-home lighting
Automatic
When the automatic illumination of headlamps is activated, if the ambient light level is low, dipped beam comes on automatically when switching off the ignition.
Activation or deactivation of the system, as well as the period for the guide-me-home lighting
are set in the touch screen tablet. ze Select the "Driving assistance"
t=5 menu.
* Inthe secondary page, press Éz "Vehicle settings".
Visibility
Manual
= 6
The temporary illumination of the dipped beam headlamps after the vehicle's ignition has been switched off makes the driver's exit easier when the light is poor.
Switching on
æ With the ignition off, "flash" the headlamps using the lighting stalk.
@ A further "headlamp flash" switches the function off.
Switching off The manual guide-me-home lighting switches off automatically after a set time.
119
120
Visibility
Headlamp adjustment
 
(|
To avoid causing a nuisance to other road users, the height of the headlamps should be adjusted in relation to the load in the vehicle.
0.
2.
Driver only
or driver + front passenger.
Driver + front passenger + rear passengers.
Driver + front passenger + rear passengers + load in the boot.
Driver + front passenger + rear passengers + load in the boot.
Driver only + maximum authorised load in the boot.
This position is sufficient to avoid causing dazzle. Higher settings may limit the spread of light from the headlamps.
The initial setting is position "0".
þm o
Travelling abroad
The design of the dipped beam headlamps allows, without modification, driving in a country that drives on the other side of the road to the country in which your vehicle was sold.
 
Visibility
Cornering lighting Ti" ) Switching on
This system starts:
- when the corresponding direction indicator is switched on, or
- from acertain angle of rotation of the steering wheel.
=
e N
N
 
With dipped or main beams, this system With cornering lighting Switching off makes use of the beam from a front foglamp
to illuminate the inside of a bend, when the vehicle speed is below 25 mph (approximately 40 km/h) (urban driving, winding road, intersections, parking manoeuvres...).
The system does not operate:
- below acertain angle of rotation of the steering wheel,
- above 25 mph (40 km/h),
- when reverse gear is engaged.
 
Without cornering lighting
121
Visibility E
Wiper control stalk
į ` In wintry conditions, remove snow, ice Manual controls Oe ee nna ese a. The wipers are controlled directly by the driver. | Windscreen wipers around the wiper arms and blades and the windscreen seal, before operating the wipers.
Wiping speed control stalk: raise or lower the stalk to the desired position.
Fast wipe (heavy rain).
Normal wipe (moderate rain).
Do not operate the wipers on a dry windscreen. Under extremely hot or cold conditions, ensure that the wiper blades are not stuck to the windscreen, before operating the wipers.
Intermittent wipe (proportional to the speed of the vehicle).
Park.
Single wipe (press downwards or pull i the stalk briefly towards you, then release).
 
Automatic wiping (press down, AUTO 4 then release) or single wipe (pull the stalk briefly towards you).
 
Model with AUTO wiping
122
 
Rear wiper
Rear wiper selection ring:
a Intermittent wipe. Wash-wipe (set duration).
     
Reverse gear
When reverse gear is engaged, the rear wiper will come into operation automatically if the windscreen wipers are operating.
Activation or deactivation of this automatic function can be set in the touch screen tablet.
In the secondary page, press "Vehicle settings".
* Select the "Driving assistance" EH ` menu. SBS
This function is activated by default.
Fe
) Ifa significant accumulation of snow or ice is present, or when using a bicycle carrier on the boot, deactivate the automatic rear wiper.
Visibility
 
Windscreen wash
Pull the wiper stalk towards you. The windscreen wash, then the windscreen wipers, operate for a pre-determined time.
Your vehicle is fitted with an innovative windscreen wash system.
The screenwash fluid is sprayed all along the length of the wiper blade, so avoiding impairment of the driver's view or that of the passengers.
F= e
123
124
Visibility
Automatic rain sensitive windscreen wipers
The windscreen wipers operate automatically, without any action on the part of the driver, if rain is detected (sensor behind the rear view mirror), adapting their speed to the intensity of the rainfall.
 
Switching on WNinien Briefly push the control stalk
downwards. WV A wiping cycle confirms that the instruction has been accepted. This warning lamp comes on in the instrument panel and a message is displayed.
  
 
Switching off
Briefly push the control stalk downwards again, or place the control stalk in another position (Int, 1 Or 2),
This warning lamp goes off in the instrument panel and a message is displayed.
 
þm o
The automatic rain sensitive windscreen wipers must be reactivated by pushing the control stalk downwards, if the ignition has been off for more than
one minute.
Operating fault
If a fault occurs with the automatic rain sensitive wipers, the wipers will operate in intermittent mode.
Have it checked by CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
Do not cover the rain sensor, linked with the sunshine sensor and located in the centre of the windscreen behind the rear view mirror.
Switch off the automatic rain sensitive
wipers when using an automatic car wash.
In winter, it is advisable to wait until the windscreen is completely clear of ice before activating the automatic rain sensitive wipers.
Special position of the windscreen wipers
 
This position permits release of the windscreen wiper blades.
It is used for cleaning or replacement of the blades. It can also be useful, in winter, to detach the blades from the windscreen.
ze Any action on the wiper stalk in the minute after switching off the ignition places the blades vertically on the screen.
ze To park the blades again, switch on the ignition and operate the wiper stalk.
äs
To maintain the effectiveness of the "flat-blade" type of wiper blades, it is
Visibility
6
advisable to:
handle them with care,
clean them regularly using soapy water,
avoid using them to retain cardboard on the windscreen, replace them at the first signs of wear.
125
126
Visibility Panoramic sunroof
This glazed roof provides increased visibility and light in the passenger compartment, while maintaining normal temperatures thanks to its "high thermal protection" coating.
Advice on care
In order to preserve the properties of the glazed roof, we recommend that you wipe or clean the inner glass using a clean, soft and dry cloth.
For stubborn stains, the glass should be cleaned using screenwash fluid, rinsed with clean water, then dried with a clean, soft cloth.
Do not use soapy water, abrasive products, detergents (particularly those with an ammonia base), solvents, solutions with a high concentration of alcohol, petrol, ...
 
Courtesy lamp
 
1. Courtesy lamp 2. Map reading lamps
Courtesy lamp
In this position, the courtesy lamp comes on gradually:
- when the vehicle is unlocked,
- when the key is removed from the ignition,
- when opening a door,
- when the remote control locking button is pressed, in order to locate your vehicle.
It switches off gradually:
- when the vehicle is locked,
- when the ignition is switched on,
- 30 seconds after the last door is closed.
rey Permanently off. Permanent lighting.
With the "permanent lighting" mode, the lighting time varies according to the circumstances: - with the ignition off, approximately ten minutes, - in energy economy mode, approximately
thirty seconds, - with the engine running, unlimited.
e
Visibility
Map reading lamps
* With the ignition on, press the corresponding switch.
f Take care to avoid leaving anything in contact with the courtesy lamp.
127
Visibility
Brightness of instruments and controls
Lighting dimmer control
Allows the manual adjustment of the brightness
of the instrument and controls illumination, to suit the ambient light level.
i Operates only when the sidelamps are on.
=F
This function is accessible in the touch screen tablet.
* Select the "Configuration"
CF menu
ze Adjust the brightness by pressing on the "+" or "=" buttons or by moving the cursor.
128
Black screen (Touch screen tablet)
Ka
This function is accessible in the touch screen tablet.
* Select the "Configuration"
OJ menu.
T e Press "Turn off screen".
The screen in the the touch screen tablet goes off.
Press the screen again (anywhere on its surface) to switch it on again.
 
Boot lamp uws
This comes on automatically when the boot is
opened and switches off automatically when
the boot is closed.
Different lighting times are provided:
- when the ignition is off, approximately ten minutes,
- in energy economy mode, approximately thirty seconds,
- when the engine is running, no limit.
 
Direction in dicators
 
* Left: lower the lighting stalk passing the point of resistance.
e Right: raise the lighting stalk passing the point of resistance.
Three flashes of the direction indicators
ze Press briefly upwards or downwards, without going beyond the point of resistance; the direction indicators will flash 3 times.
Safety
Hazard warning
lamps Automatic operation of hazard warning lamps
When braking in an emergency, depending on |à | the deceleration, the hazard warning lamps come on automatically. They switch off automatically the first time you accelerate. * You can also switch them off by pressing the button.
e
A visual warning by means of the direction indicators to alert other road users to a vehicle breakdown, towing or accident. 7 ze Press this button, the direction indicators flash. They can operate with the ignition off.
129
Safety
Horn Emergency or assistance call
This system allows you to make an emergency or assistance call to the emergency services or
Audible warning system to alert other road to the dedicated CITROEN service.
users to an imminent danger. ze Press the central part of the steering wheel. For more information on the use of this function, refer to the "Audio and telematics"
section.
Use the horn moderately and only in the
following circumstances: immediate danger, overtaking a cyclist or pedestrian,
approaching a location lacking visibility.
130
 
Tyre under-inflation detection
System which automatically checks the pressure of the tyres while driving.
The system monitors the pressures on the four tyres, once the vehicle is moving.
It compares the information given by the four wheel speed sensors with reference values, which must be reinitialised every time the tyre pressures are adjusted or a wheel changed.
The system triggers an alert as soon as it detects a drop in the inflation pressure of one or more tyres.
The under-inflation detection system does not replace the vigilance or the responsibility of the driver.
This system does not avoid the need to check the tyre pressures (including the spare wheel) every month as well as before a long journey.
Driving with under-inflated tyres impairs road holding, extends braking distances and causes premature tyre wear, particularly under arduous condition
(high loading, high speed, long journey).
Driving with under-inflated tyres increases fuel consumption.
Safety
The inflation pressures defined for your vehicle can be found on the tyre pressure label.
See the "Identification markings" section.
Tyre pressures should be checked when the tyres are "cold" (vehicle stopped for 1 hour or after a journey of less than 6 miles (10 km) at moderate speeds).
Otherwise (when hot), add 0.3 bar to the pressures shown on the label.
7
131
Safety
Under-inflation alert
This is given by fixed illumination of = Ifyou have a compressor (such as the one í Í ) this warning lamp, accompanied by in the temporary puncture repair kit) check an audible signal and the display of a the pressures of the four tyres when cold. message. If it is not possible to carry out this check straight away, drive carefully at reduced ze Reduce speed immediately, avoid speed. excessive steering movements and sudden or braking = Inthe event of a puncture, use the = Stop the vehicle as soon as it is safe to do temporary puncture repair kit or the spare SO. wheel (depending on equipment),
f} The loss of pressure detected does not
° always cause visible bulging of the tyre. Do not satisfy yourself with just a visual - The alert is maintained until the system check. is reinitialised.
132
Reinitialisation
It is necessary to reinitialise the system every time one or more tyre pressure is adjusted, and after changing one or more wheels.
A label attached to the middle pillar, driver's side, gives a reminder of this.
 
Before reinitialising the system, ensure that the pressures of the four tyres are correct for the use of the vehicle and in line with the recommendations on the tyre pressure label.
The under-inflation detection system does not give a warning if a pressure is incorrect at the time of reinitialisation.
Reinitialisation of the system is done in the the touch screen tablet, with the ignition on and the vehicle stationary.
e Inthe secondary page, press l ) "Under-inflation initialisation".
* Select the "Driving assistance" menu.
* Confirm the instruction by pressing "Yes", an audible signal and a message confirm the reinitialisation.
The new pressure settings registered are considered to be reference values by the system.
Snow chains
The system does not have to be reinitialised after fitting or removing snow chains.
The under-inflation alert can only be considered reliable if reinitialisation of the system is done with the the four tyre pressures correctly set.
Safety
Operating fault
(1) service
The flashing and then fixed illumination of the under-inflation warning lamp accompanied by illumination of the "service" warning lamp indicates a fault with the system.
In this case, under-inflation monitoring of the tyres is no longer assured.
Have the system checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
= Before doing anything to the system, the pressures of the four tyres must be checked and the system reinitialised.
133
134
Safety
Electronic stability control (ESC)
Electronic Stability Control (ESC) incorporating
the following systems:
- the anti-lock braking system (ABS) and the electronic brake force distribution (EBFD),
- the emergency braking assistance,
- the anti-slip regulation (ASR) or traction control,
- the dynamic stability control (DSC).
Definitions
Anti-lock braking system (ABS) and electronic brake force distribution (EBFD)
This system improves the stability and manoeuvrability of your vehicle when braking and provides improved control in corners, in particular on poor or slippery road surfaces. The ABS prevents wheel lock in the event of emergency braking.
The electronic brake force distribution system
manages the braking pressure wheel by wheel.
Emergency braking assistance
In an emergency, this system enables you to reach the optimum braking pressure more quickly and therefore reduce the stopping distance.
It is triggered according to the speed at which the brake pedal is pressed. This is felt by a reduction in the resistance of the pedal and an increase in the effectiveness of the braking.
Anti-slip regulation (ASR)
The ASR system (also known as Traction Control) optimises traction in order to limit wheel slip by acting on the brakes of the driving wheels and on the engine. It also improves
the directional stability of the vehicle on acceleration.
Dynamic stability control (DSC)
If there is a difference between the path followed by the vehicle and that required by
the driver, the DSC monitors each wheel and automatically acts on the brake of one or more wheels and on the engine to return the vehicle to the required path, within the limits of the laws of physics.
 
Operation
Anti-lock braking system (ABS) and electronic brake force distribution (EBFD)
When this warning lamp comes on,
(©) accompanied by an audible signal and a message, it indicates that there is a fault with the ABS, which could cause loss of control of the vehicle when braking.
When this warning lamp comes on,
O coupled with the STOP warning lamp, accompanied by an audible signal and a message, it indicates that there is a fault with the electronic brake force distribution (EBFD), which could cause loss of control of the vehicle when braking.
You must stop as soon as it is safe to do so. In both cases, contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
be
=o
When changing wheels (tyres and rims), make sure that these are approved for your vehicle.
Normal operation of the ABS may make itself felt by slight vibrations of the brake pedal.
In emergency braking, press very firmly without releasing the pressure.
Safety
135
136
Safety
— md | Ay
 
Dynamic stability control (DSC) and anti-slip regulation (ASR)
Activation
These systems are activated automatically each time the vehicle is started. As soon as they detect a problem of grip or
trajectory, these systems act on the operation if
the engine and brakes.
E
ee
This is indicated by flashing of this
warning lamp in the instrument panel.
Deactivation
In exceptional conditions (starting a vehicle which is bogged down, stuck in snow, on soft ground...), it may be advisable to deactivate the DSC system, so that the wheels can move freely and regain grip.
But it is recommended that the system be reactivated as soon as possible.
= e Press the button.
Sé ee OFF This warning lamp and the indicator CH lamp in the button come on: the ee DSC system no longer acts on the
operation of the engine.
Reactivation
The system is reactivated automatically each time the ignition is switched back on or from 30 mph (50 km/h).
e Press the button again to reactivate it manually.
Operating fault
If this warning lamp comes on, CH accompanied by an audible signal
Ce anda message, this indicates a fault with the system.
Contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop to have the system checked.
The DSC system offers exceptional safety in normal driving, but this should not encourage the driver to take extra risks or drive at high speed.
The correct operation of the system depends on observation of the manufacturer's recommendations regarding the wheels (tyres and rims), the braking components, the electronic components and the assembly and repair procedures used by CITROEN dealers.
After an impact, have the system checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
 
Seat belts
Front seat belts
(= 4 7
The front seat belts are fitted with a pretensioning and force limiting system. This system improves safety in the front seats in the event of a front or side impact. Depending on the severity of the impact, the pretensioning system instantly tightens the seat belts against the body of the occupants.
The pretensioning seat belts are active when the ignition is on.
The force limiter reduces the pressure of the seat belt on the chest of the occupant, so improving their protection.
Rear seat belts
 
Lia f pan 1 WA = if st at fe a 7 se, e
The rear seats are each fitted with a three-point seat belt.
Safety
 
Fastening
* Pull the strap, then insert the tongue in the buckle.
* Check that the seat belt is fastened correctly by pulling the strap.
7
Unfastening
e Press the red button on the buckle. e Guide the seat belt as it reels in.
137
Safety
Seat belt not fastened / unfastened warning lamps
1.
DAWN
138
Front seat belts not fastened / unfastened warning lamp in the instrument panel. Front left seat belt warning lamp.
Front right seat belt warning lamp.
Rear right seat belt warning lamp.
Rear centre seat belt warning lamp.
Rear left seat belt warning lamp.
Front seat belt warning lamps
On switching on the ignition, warning
z lamp 1 comes on in the instrument Pitis ] i Ce, 2 panel and the corresponding warning lamp (2 and 3) comes on in red in the E passenger's seat belt and front airbag
å o warning lamp display if the driver's a A ĝ GEI seat belt or front passenger's seat belt GE EN is not fastened or is unfastened.
Rear seat belt warning lamps
From approximately 12 mph The corresponding warning lamp a (20 km/h), the warning lamp(s) A (4 to 6) comes on in red in the
flash for two minutes accompanied seat belt and front airbag warning
by an audible signal. Once these lamp display if one or more rear
two minutes have elapsed, the passengers unfasten their seat belt.
warning lamp(s) remain on until the driver or front passenger fastens their seat belt.
The driver must ensure that passengers use the seat belts correctly and that they are all restrained securely before setting off. Wherever you are seated in the vehicle, always fasten your seat belt, even for short journeys.
Do not interchange the seat belt buckles as they will not fulfil their role fully.
The seat belts are fitted with an inertia reel permitting automatic adjustment of the length of the strap to your size. The seat belt is stowed automatically when not in use. Before and after use, ensure that the seat belt is reeled in correctly.
The lower part of the strap must be positioned as low as possible on the pelvis. The upper part must be positioned in the hollow of the shoulder.
The inertia reels are fitted with an automatic locking device which comes into operation in the event of a collision, emergency braking or if the vehicle rolls over. You can release the device by pulling firmly on the strap and releasing it so that it reels in slightly.
In order to be effective, a seat belt must:
- be tightened as close to the body as possible,
- be pulled in front of you with a smooth movement, checking that it does not twist,
- be used to restrain only one person,
- not bear any trace of cuts or fraying,
- not be converted or modified to avoid affecting its performance.
In accordance with current safety regulations, for all repairs on your vehicle, go to a qualified workshop with the skills and equipment needed, which a CITROEN dealer is able to provide.
Have your seat belts checked regularly by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop, particularly if the straps show signs of damage.
Clean the seat belt straps with soapy
water or a textile cleaning product, sold by CITROEN dealers.
After folding or moving a seat or rear bench seat, ensure that the seat belt is positioned and reeled in correctly.
Safety
Recommendations for children
Use a suitable child seat if the passenger is less than 12 years old or shorter than one and a half metres.
Never use the same seat belt to secure more than one person.
Never allow a child to travel on your lap.
In the event of an impact
Depending on the nature and seriousness of the impact, the pretensioning device may be deployed before and independently of the airbags. Deployment of the pretensioners is accompanied by a slight discharge of harmless smoke and a noise, due to the activation of the pyrotechnic cartridge incorporated in the system.
In all cases, the airbag warning lamp comes on.
Following an impact, have the seat belts system checked, and if necessary replaced, by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
7
139
Safety EE
Airbags
System designed to maximise the safety of the
occupants (with the exception of the rear centre —
passenger) in the event of violent collisions. See, ©
The airbags supplement the action of the force-
limiting seat belts (with the exception of the
centre rear passenger).
If a collision occurs, the electronic detectors
record and analyse the front and side impacts
sustained in the impact detection zones:
- inthe case of a serious impact, the airbags are deployed instantly and contribute towards better protection of the occupants
of the vehicle (with the exception of the Impact detection zones
 
rear centre passenger); immediately after : 4 -Peployment SC Ee Ce the impact, the airbags deflate rapidly so A. Front impact zone. accompanied by as ight emission B. Side impact zone. of smoke and a noise, due to the
that they do not hinder visibility or the exit of the occupants,
- inthe case of a minor or rear impact or in certain roll-over conditions, the airbags will not be deployed; the seat belt alone contributes towards ensuring your protection in these situations.
activation of the pyrotechnic cartridge incorporated in the system.
This smoke is not harmful, but sensitive individuals may experience slight irritation.
The noise of the detonation may result in a slight loss of hearing for a short time.
The airbags do not operate when the
ignition is switched off.
This equipment will only deploy once.
If a second impact occurs (during the
same or a subsequent accident), the
airbag will not be deployed again.
140
Front airbags
System which protects the driver and front passenger in the event of a serious front impact in order to limit the risk of injury to the head and thorax.
The driver's airbag Is fitted in the centre of the steering wheel; the front passenger's airbag
is fitted in the roof to allow more space in the glove box.
Deployment
The airbags are deployed, except the passenger's front airbag if it is deactivated, in the event of a serious front impact to all or part of the front impact zone A, in the longitudinal centreline of the vehicle on a horizontal plane and directed from the front to the rear of the vehicle.
The front airbag inflates between the thorax and head of the front occupant of the vehicle and the steering wheel, driver's side, and the dashboard, passenger's side to cushion their forward movement.
 
Deactivating the passenger's front airbag
Only the passenger's front airbag can be
deactivated.
e With the ignition off, insert the key in the passenger airbag deactivation switch.
e Turn it to the "OFF" position.
e Remove the key keeping the switch in the new position.
When the ignition is on, this warning lamp comes in the seat belt display screen. It stays on while the airbag is deactivated.
Gs, el?
Safety
To assure the safety of your child,
the passenger's front airbag must
be deactivated when you install a "rearward facing" child seat on the front passenger seat.
Otherwise, the child would risk being seriously injured or killed if the airbag were deployed.
Reactivating the passenger's front airbag
When you remove a "rearward facing" child seat, with the ignition off, turn the switch to the "ON" position to reactivate the airbag and so assure the safety of your front passenger in the event of an impact.
E
7
When the ignition is switched on, this warning lamp comes on in the seat belt display screen for approximately one minute to signal that the front airbag is activated.
141
Safety
Operating fault
If this warning lamp comes on in the If this warning lamp flashes, contact b's instrument panel, accompanied by Ao a CITROEN dealer or a qualified
an audible warning and a message, workshop. The passenger's front
contact a CITROEN dealer or a airbag may no longer be deployed in
qualified workshop without delay the event of a serious impact.
to have the system checked. The airbags may no longer be deployed in
, In the event of a fault, identified by at the event of a serious impact.
least one of the two airbag warning lamps, do not install a child seat or seat an adult on the front passenger seat. Have it checked by a CITROËN dealer or qualified workshop.
142
 
Lateral airbags
 
System which protects the driver and front Impact detection zones passenger in the event of a serious side impact
in order to limit the risk of injury to the chest, between the hip and the shoulder.
Each lateral airbag is fitted in the seat backrest frame, door side.
A. Front impact zone. B. Side impact zone.
Deployment
The lateral airbags are deployed unilaterally in the event of a serious side impact applied to all or part of the side impact zone B, perpendicular to the longitudinal centreline of the vehicle on a horizontal plane and directed from the outside towards the inside of the vehicle.
The lateral airbag inflates between the hip and shoulder of the front occupant of the vehicle and the corresponding door trim panel.
Safety
143
144
Safety
Curtain airbags
System which protects the driver and passengers (with the exception of the rear centre passenger) in the event of a serious side impact in order to limit the risk of injury to the side of the head.
Each curtain airbag is built into the pillars and the upper passenger compartment area.
Deployment
The curtain airbag is deployed at the same time as the corresponding lateral airbag in the event of a serious side impact applied to all or part of the side impact zone B, perpendicular to the longitudinal centreline of the vehicle on a horizontal plane and directed from the outside towards the inside of the vehicle.
The curtain airbag inflates between the front or rear occupant of the vehicle and the windows.
Operating fault
2e
If this warning lamp comes on in the instrument panel, accompanied by an audible signal and a message, contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop to have the system checked. The airbags may no longer be deployed in the event of a serious impact.
In the event of a minor impact or bump on the side of the vehicle or if the vehicle rolls over, the airbags may not be deployed.
In the event of a rear or front collision, none of the lateral airbags is deployed.
Safety
For the airbags to be fully effective, observe the following safety rules:
Sit in a normal upright position.
Wear a correctly adjusted seat belt.
Do not leave anything between the occupants and the airbags (a child, pet, object...). This could hamper the operation of the airbags or injure the occupants.
After an accident or if the vehicle has been stolen or broken into, have the airbag systems checked.
All work on the airbag system must be carried out by a CITROEN dealer ora qualified workshop.
Even if all of the precautions mentioned are observed, a risk of injury or of minor burns to the head, chest or arms when an airbag is deployed cannot be ruled out. The bag inflates almost instantly (within
a few milliseconds) then deflates within the same time discharging the hot gas via openings provided for this purpose.
Front airbags
Do not drive holding the steering wheel by its spokes or resting your hands on the centre part of the wheel.
Passengers must not place their feet on the dashboard.
Do not smoke as deployment of the airbags can cause burns or the risk of injury from a cigarette or pipe.
Never remove or pierce the steering wheel or hit it violently.
Do not fit or attach anything to the steering wheel or dashboard, this could cause injuries with deployment of the airbags.
Lateral airbags
Use only approved covers on the seats, compatible with the deployment the lateral airbags. For information on the range of seat covers suitable for your vehicle, you can contact a CITROEN dealer.
Refer to the "Accessories" section.
Do not fix or attach anything to the seat backs (clothing...). This could cause injury
to the chest or arms if the lateral airbag is deployed.
Do not sit with the upper part of the body any nearer to the door than necessary.
7
Curtain airbags
Do not fix or attach anything to the roof. This could cause injury to the head if the curtain airbag is deployed.
If fitted on your vehicle, do not remove the grab handles installed on the roof, they play a part in securing the curtain airbags.
145
146
Child safety
General points relating to child seats
Although one of CITROEN main criteria when designing your vehicle, the safety of your children also depends on you.
For maximum safety, please observe the
following recommendations:
- in accordance with European regulations, all children under the age of 12 or less than one and a half metres tall must travel in approved child seats suited to their weight, on seats fitted with a seat belt or ISOFIX mountings”,
- statistically, the safest seats in your vehicle for carrying children are the rear seats,
- achild weighing less than 9 kg must travel in the "rearward facing" position both in the front and in the rear.
CITROEN recommends that children should travel on the rear seats of your vehicle:
-  "“rearward-facing" up to the age of 3, -  "forward-facing" over the age of 3.
kä e
* The rules for carrying children are specific to each country. Refer to the legislation in force in your country.
 
Child seat at the rear
“Rearward facing"
 
When a "rearward facing" child seat is installed on a rear passenger seat, move the vehicle's front seat forwards and straighten the backrest so that the "rearward facing" child seat does not touch the vehicle's front seat.
“Forward facing"
 
When a "forward facing" child seat is installed on a rear passenger seat, move the vehicle's front seat forwards and straighten the backrest so that the legs of the child in the "forward facing" child seat do not touch the vehicle's front seat.
°- Ensure that the seat belt is correctly tensioned. For child seats with a support leg, ensure that this is in firm contact with the floor. If necessary, adjust the front seat of the vehicle.
Child safety
Centre rear seat
A child seat with a support leg must never be installed on the centre rear passenger seat.
147
Child safety
Child seat in the front*
“Rearward facing" “Forward facing"
 
When a "rearward facing" child seat is installed When a "forward facing" child seat is installed Passenger seat adjusted to the intermediate on the front passenger seat, adjust the seat to on the front passenger seat, adjust the longitudinal position.
the intermediate longitudinal position, with the vehicle's seat to the intermediate longitudinal
backrest straightened. position with seat backrest straightened and
The passenger's front airbag must be leave the passenger's front airbag activated.
deactivated. Otherwise, the child would risk being seriously injured or killed if the airbag were to inflate.
Ensure that the seat belt is correctly tensioned.
For child seats with a support leg, ensure that the support leg is in stable
8 contact with the floor. If necessary, * The rules on carrying children are specific to adjust the passenger seat.
each country. Refer to the current legislation in your country before installing a child seat on this seat.
=e
148
 
 
Deactivating the passenger's front airbag
The warning label present on both sides of the passenger's sun visor repeats this advice. In line with current legislation, the following tables contain this warning in all of the languages required.
f Never install a rearward facing child restraint system on a seat protected by an active front airbag. This could cause the death of the child or serious injury.
 
Child safety
 
Passenger airbag OFF
This label is located on the middle door pillar, passenger side.
 
For information on deactivating the passenger's front airbag, refer to the "Airbags" section.
149
Child safety E
dli yii dliel ai RAN 3 bai tel the pte ib ls Al Ll ya chal BAM Mä kä Aas el al jg daäi aa d Jl e AA
ial HNKOTA HE unctanupante getcko cTtonye Ha ceganka c AATUBUPAHA npeaHa Bb3QYWHA Bb3INABHULA. Topa moxena npnynnn CMBPT nnn CEPYUO3HO HAPAHABAHE ua geteTo. CS
NIKDY neumisťujte dětské zádržné zařízení orientované směrem dozadu na sedadlo chráněné AKTIVOVANYM éelnim AIRBAGEM. Hrozí nebezpečí SMRTI DÍTĚTE nebo VÁŽNÉHO ZRANĚNÍ.
Verwenden Sie NIEMALS einen Kindersitz oder Babyschale gegen die Fahrtrichtung bei AKTIVIERTEM Airbag, TOD oder ERNSTHAFTE VERLETZUNGEN können die Folge sein.
Mn xpnoipotroicite NOTE maidikó káðioua YE THV TIAGTN TOU TIPOG TO EUTTPÓG ÉpPOÇ TOU QAUTOKIVÁÝTOU, O£ WIA BEON Trou TIPOCOTATEVETAI aTIO METONIKO aepdoako Trou eivai ENEPI Ox. Auto utropsi va €xel oav ouvetreia TO OANATO ff To LOBAPO TPAYMATIZMO Tou NAIAIOY
NO INSTALAR NUNCA EL SISTEMA DE RETENCION PARA NINOS DE ESPALDAS AL SENTIDO DE LA CIRCULACION SOBRE UN ASIENTO PROTEGIDO CON UN COJIN INFLABLE FRONTAL ( AIRBAG ) ACTIVADO. ESTO PUEDE CAUSAR LA MUERTE DEL BEBE O HERIRLO GRAVEMENTE.
Ärge kasutage kunagi lapse turvatooli seljaga sõidusuunas sõiduki istmel mis on kaitstud AKTIVEERITUD TURVAPADJAGA. See võib põhjustada lapsele RASKEID VIGASTUSI või SURMA.
ÄLÄ KOSKAAN aseta lapsen turvaistuinta selkä ajosuuntaan istuimelle, jonka edessä suojana on käyttöön aktivoitu TURVATYYNY. Sen laukeaminen voi aiheuttaa LAPSEN KUOLEMAN tai VAKAVAN LOUKKAANTUMISEN.
NIKADA ne postavljati dječju sjedalicu leđima u smjeru vožnje na sjedalo zaštićeno UKLJUČENIM prednjim ZRAČNIM JASTUKOM. To bi moglo uzrokovati SMRT ili TESKU OZLJEDU djeteta.
SOHA ne használjon menetiránynak háttal beszerelt gyermekülést olyan ülésen, amely AKTIVÁLT ÁLLAPOTÚ (BEKAPCSOLT) FRONTLÉGZSÁKKAL van védve. Ez a gyermek halálát vagy súlyos sérülését okozhatja.
NON installare MAI seggiolini per bambini posizionati in senso contrario a quello di marcia su un sedile protetto da un AIRBAG frontale ATTIVATO. Ciò potrebbe provocare la MORTE o FERITE GRAVI al bambino.
NIEKADA nejrenkite vaiko prilaikymo priemonės su atgal atgręžtu vaiku ant sėdynės, kuri saugoma VEIKIANČIOS priekinės ORO PAGALVĖS. Išsiskleidus oro pagalvei vaikas gali būti MIRTINAI arba SUNKIAI TRAUMUOTAS.
NAV PIEĻAUJAMS uzstādīt uz aizmuguri vērstu bērnu sēdeklīti priekšējā pasažiera vietā, kurā ir AKTIVIZĒTS priekšējais DROŠĪBAS GAISA SPILVENS. Tas var izraistt BERNA NAVI vai radīt NOPIETNUS IEVAINOJUMUS.
 
150
 
Child safety
Qatt m’ghandek thalli tifel/tifla marbut f’siggu dahru lejn l-Airbag attiva, ghaliex tista’ tikkawza korriment serju jew anke mewt lit-tifel/tifla
Plaats NOOIT een kinderzitje met de rug in de rijrichting op een zitplaats waarvan de AIRBAG is INGESCHAKELD. Bij het afgaan van de airbag kan het KIND ERNSTIG OF DODELIJK GEWOND raken.
Installer ALDRI et barnesete med ryggen mot kjøreretningen i et sete som er beskyttet med en frontal AKTIVERT KOLLISJONSPUTE, BARNET risikerer å bli DREPT eller HARDT SKADET.
PL | NIGDY nie instalować fotelika dziecięcego w pozycji «tyłem do kierunku jazdyyna siedzeniu wyposażonym w_CZOŁOWĄ PODUSZKĘ POWIETRZNĄ w stanie AKTYWNYM.W przeciwnym razie dziecko narażone będzie na ŚMIERĆ lub BARDZO POWAŻNĖ OBRAŻENIA CIAŁA w momenicie wyzwolenia poduszki powietrznej
PT | NUNCA instale um sistema de retenção para crianças de costas para a estrada, num banco protegido por um AIRBAG frontal ACTIVADO. Esta instalação poderá provocar FERIMENTOS GRAVES ou a MORTE da CRIANÇA.
È instalati NICIODATA un sistem de retinere pentru copii, dispus cu spatele in directia de mers, pe un loc din vehicul protejat cu AIRBAG frontal WT Aceasta ar putea provoca MOARTEA COPILULUI sau RANIREA lui GRAVA.
BO BCEX CNYYAAX 3ANPELWAETCA ucnonb30BaTb o6paeHHoe Ha3aq AeTCKoe yAepxKuBaloljee YCTPOUCTBO Ha CUeHbe, 3ALWLWEHHOM S
ÞpÞYHKUNOHNPYOLEM TIODNUKOM BEZOTIACHOCTH, vcranopnenunou Depen 2rHMM CNAEHbEM. OTO MoxeT NpuBectu K FABESIV PEBEHKA unu HAHECEHUIO EMY CEPbE3HbIX TENECHbIX NOBPEKOEHUN
spôsobiť SMRŤ, alebo VÁŽNE ZRANENIE DIEŤAŤA.
SL | NIKOLI ne nameščajte otroškega sedeža s hrbtom v smeri vožnje, če je VARNOSTNA BLAZINA pred sprednjim sopotnikovim sedežem AKTIVIRANA. Takšna namestitev lahko povzroči SMRT OTROKA ali HUDE POSKODBE.
NIKADA ne koristite dečje sedište koje se okreće unazad na sedištu zaštićenim AKTIVNIM VAZDUŠNIM JASTUKOM ispred njega, jer mogu nastupiti
NIKDY nepoužívajte na prednom sedadle chránenom AKTÍVNYM AIRBAGOM detské zadržiavacie zariadenie umiestnené v proti smere jazdy. Môže to
SMRT ili OZBILJNA POVREDA DETETA. Använd ALDRIG en bakåtvänd barnstol i ett säte skyddat av en AKTIV AIRBAG framför det. Det kan orsaka ALLVARLIGA eller DÖDLIGA skador på barnet.
TR | KESINLKLE HAVA YASTIĞI AKTİF olan ön koltuğa yüzü arkaya dönük bir çocuk koltuğu yerleştirmeyiniz. Bu ÇOCUĞUN ÖLMESİNE veya ÇOK AĞIR YARALANMASINA sebep olabilir.
 
151
Child safety E
Child seats recommended by CITROEN
CITROEN offers a range of recommended child seats which are secured using a three point seat belt.
Group 0+: from birth to 13 kg
L1 "ROMER Baby-Safe Plus" Installed in the rearward facing position.
Groups 2 and 3: from 15 to 36 kg
L4 "KLIPPAN Optima" From 22 kg (approximately 6 years), the booster is used on its own.
L5 "RÖMER KIDFIX" Can be fitted to the vehicle's ISOFIX mountings. The child is restrained by the seat belt.
 
152
 
Child safety
Installation of child seats secured using the seat belt
In accordance with European regulations, this table indicates the options for installing child seats secured using the seat belt and universally approved (a) in relation to the weight of the child and the seat in the vehicle.
Weight of the child / indicative age
Groups 0 (b) and 0+ Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Birth to 13 kg From 9 to 18 kg From 15 to 25 kg From 22 to 36 kg Up to about 1 year From 1 to about 3 years | From 3 to about 6 years | From 6 to about 10 years
Necro Front passenger Pi ) without height adjustment (d
2™ row
 
153
154
Child safety
Universal child seat: child seat which can be installed in all vehicles using the seat belt.
Group 0: from birth to 10 kg. Infant car seats and "car cots" cannot be installed on the front passenger seat.
When installed in the 2"° row, they may prevent the use of one or more seats. Consult the legislation in force in your country before installing your child on this seat.
When a "rearward facing" child seat is installed on the front passenger seat, the passenger airbag must be deactivated. otherwise the child would risk being seriously injured or killed if the airbag were deployed.
When a "forward facing" child seat is installed on the front passenger seat, leave the passenger airbag active.
(e) To install a child seat on a rear seat,
"rearward facing" or "forward facing", move the front seat forward, then straighten the backrest to allow enough space for the child seat and the child's legs.
A child seat with support leg must never be installed on the centre rear seat.
Fc o
Seat suitable for the installation of a child seat secured using the seat belt and universally approved "rearward facing" and/or "forward facing".
Remove and stow the head restraint before installing a child seat ona passenger seat. Refit the head restraint once the child seat has been removed.
 
"ISOFIX" mountings
Your vehicle has been approved in accordance with the latest ISOFIX regulation.
The seats, represented below, are fitted with regulation ISOFIX mountings:
 
- two rings A, located between the vehicle seat back and cushion, indicated by a marking,
 
‘©
- aring B behind the seat for fixing the upper strap, referred to as the TOP TETHER.
The TOP TETHER is used to secure the upper strap of child seats that have one. This arrangement limits the forward tipping of the child seat in the event of a front impact.
This ISOFIX mounting system provides fast, reliable and safe fitting of the child seat in your vehicle.
When fitting an ISOFIX child seat to the left hand rear seat, before fitting the seat, first move the centre rear seat belt towards the middle of the vehicle, so as to avoid the seat interfering with the operation of the seat belt.
Child safety
The ISOFIX child seats are fitted with two latches which are secured on the two rings A. Some seats also have an upper strap, known as the TOP TETHER, which is attached to ring B.
To secure the child seat to the top tether:
[oe
remove and stow the head restraint before installing the child seat in this seating position (refit it once the child seat has been removed),
pass the strap of the child seat over the top of the seat backrest, centred between the apertures for the head restraint rods,
fix the hook of the upper strap to the ring B, tighten the upper strap.
The incorrect installation of a child seat &
in a vehicle compromises the child's protection in the event of an accident. Follow the instructions for fitting
child seats contained in the seat manufacturer's installation guide.
For information on the possibilities for installing ISOFIX child seats in your vehicle, refer to the summary table.
155
Child safety
ISOFIX child seats recommended by CITROEN and approved for your vehicle
“ROMER Baby-Safe Plus and its Baby-Safe Plus ISOFIX base" (size category: E)
Group 0+: from birth to 13 kg
Installed "rearward facing" using an ISOFIX base which is attached to the rings A. The base has a support leg, adjustable for height, which sits on the vehicle's floor. This seat can be secured with a seat belt.
In this case, only the shell is used and attached to the vehicle's seat by the three-point seat belts.
ROMER Duo Plus ISOFIX (size category: B1) Group 1: from 9 to 18 kg
Installed forward facing Attached to the rings A and the upper ring B, referred to as the TOP TETHER, using an upper strap. Three seat body angles: sitting, reclining, lying down. This child seat can also be used on seats not equipped with ISOFIX mountings. In this case, it must be secured to the seat using the three-point seat belt.
 
1 Follow the instructions for fitting child seats contained in their manufacturer's installation guide.
156
 
 
Child safety
Locations for ISOFIX child seats
In accordance with European Regulations, this table indicates the options for installing ISOFIX child seats on seats in the vehicle fitted with ISOFIX mountings. In the case of universal and semi-universal ISOFIX child seats, the ISOFIX size category, determined by a letter from A to G, is indicated on the child
seat next to the ISOFIX logo. Weight of the child / indicative age
Less than 10 kg EE a kg EE Less than 13 kg Up to about (group 0+) 6 months Up to about 1 year
               
From 9 to 18 kg (group 1) From about. 1 to 3 years
    
Type of ISOFIX child seat Infant car seat "forward facing"
row row Front passenger seat Not ISOFIX IUF Outer rear seats IL-SU IL-SU IL-SU IL-SU IL-SU and IL- SU row Centre rear seat ` rear Centre rear seat ` Not ISOFIX
   
IUF: seat suitable for the installation of an Isofix Universal seat, "Forward For advice on securing the upper strap, refer to the "ISOFIX mountings" facing" secured using the upper strap. section.
IL-SU: seat suitable for the installation of an Isofix Semi-Universal seat either:
- "rearward facing" fitted with an upper strap or a support leg, "forward facing" fitted with a support leg,
- an infant car seat fitted with an upper strap or a support leg.
* Remove and stow the head restraint before installing a child seat on a passenger seat. Refit the head restraint once the child seat has been removed.
157
158
Child safety E
Locations for i-Size child seats
The i-Size child seats have two latches that engage on the two rings A.
Refer to the "ISOFIX mountings" section.
The i-Size child seats also have:
- either an upper strap which is attached to the ring B (see the "ISOFIX mountings" section).
- ora support leg which sits on the vehicle's floor, compatible with seat approved for i-Size, the role of which is to prevent the child seat from tipping forwards in the event of a collision.
In accordance with the new European Regulations, this table indicates the options for installing i-Size child seats on seats in the vehicle fitted with
ISOFIX mountings and approved for i-Size. i-Size child seat Outer rear seats (a) 2°49 row
LU: seat suitable for i-Size restraints of the "universal" category, (a) to install a child seat at the rear, rearward facing or forward facing, forward facing or rearward facing. move the front seat forward, then straighten the backrest to allow enough space for the child seat and the child's legs.
           
 
   
 
  
Remove and stow the head restraint before installing a child seat on a passenger seat. Refit the head restraint once the child seat has been removed.
sé o
 
Advice
Child seats
The incorrect installation of a child seat ina
vehicle compromises the child's protection in
the event of an accident.
Check that there is no seat belt or seat belt
buckle under the child seat as this could
destabilise it.
Remember to fasten the seat belts or the
child seat harnesses keeping the slack in
relation to the child's body to a minimum,
even for short journeys.
For the installation of a child seat using a
seat belt, ensure that this is well tensioned
on the child seat and that it is holding the
child seat firmly against the seat of your
vehicle. If your front passenger seat is
adjustable, move it forward if necessary.
At the rear seats, always leave sufficient
space between the front seat and:
- arearward facing child seat,
- the feet of a child seated in a forward facing child seat.
For this, move the front seat forward and if
necessary straighten its backrest.
For optimum installation of the "forward facing" child seat, ensure that the back of the child seat is as close as possible to the backrest of the vehicle's seat, or in contact if possible
The head restraint must be removed before installing a child seat with a backrest on the passenger seat.
Ensure that the head restraint is stowed or attached securely so that it is not thrown around the vehicle in the event of sharp braking.
Refit the head restraint as soon as the child seat is removed.
Children at the front
The legislation on carrying a child on the front passenger seat is specific to each country. Refer to the legislation in force in your country.
Deactivate the passenger's airbag when a "rearward facing" child seat is installed on the front seat. Otherwise, the child would risk being seriously injured or killed if the airbag were deployed.
Child safety
Installing a booster cushion
The chest part of the seat belt must be positioned on the child's shoulder without touching the neck.
Ensure that the lap part of the seat belt passes correctly over the child's thighs. CITROEN recommends the use of a booster seat which has a back, fitted with a seat belt guide at shoulder level.
As a Safety precaution, do not leave:
- one or more children alone and unsupervised in a vehicle,
- achild or an animal in a vehicle which is exposed to the sun, with the windows closed,
- the keys within reach of children inside the vehicle.
To prevent accidental opening of the doors,
use the "Child lock".
Take care not to open the rear windows by
more than one third.
To protect young children from the rays of
the sun, fit side blinds on the rear windows.
8
159
160
Child safety
Manual child lock
Mechanical system to prevent opening of the rear door using its interior control. The control is located on the edge of each rear door.
A=
CI -
 
      
Y
 
Locking
@ With the ignition key, turn the red control one quarter of a turn: - to the right on the left-hand rear door, - to the left on the right-hand rear door.
Unlocking
e With the ignition key, turn the red control one quarter of a turn: - to the left on the left-hand rear door, - to the right on the right-hand rear door.
 
Fuel tank
Capacity of the tank: - Petrol: approximately 50 litres.
- Diesel: approximately 45 or 50 litres (depending on version).
Low fuel level
WM
When the low fuel level is reached, this warning lamp in the instrument panel comes on, accompanied by an audible warning, a message and the last bar of the fuel gauge flashes in red.
When it first comes on, about 5 litres of fuel remain in the tank.
Until sufficient fuel has been added, this warning lamp appears every time the ignition is switched on, accompanied by an audible warning and a message. This audible warning and message are repeated with increasing frequency as the fuel level drops towards "0".
Refuel as soon as possible to avoid running out.
i If you run out of fuel (Diesel), refer also to the section "Running out of fuel (Diesel)".
Refuelling
A label on the inside of the fuel filler flap reminds you of the type of fuel to use, depending on your engine type.
Additions of fuel must be of at least 5 litres to be registered by the fuel gauge.
Opening the filler cap may result in an inrush of air. This is entirely normal and results from the sealing of the fuel system.
} With Stop & Start, never refuel with the system in STOP mode; you must switch off the ignition with the key.
Practical information
 
To refuel in complete safety:
LS"
Es
You must switch off the engine. Open the filler flap.
Take care to select the pump that delivers 9 the correct type of fuel for your vehicle.
Introduce the key into the cap and turn it to
the left.
161
162
Practical information
 
+ Remove the cap and place it on the support on the inner face of the flap.
e Introduce the filler nozzle and push it in as far as possible before starting to refuel (risk of blowback).
e Maintain this position throughout the refuelling operation.
Once you have finished refuelling:
ze Refit the filler cap.
e Turn the key to the right, then remove it from the cap.
ze Push the fuel flap to close it.
If you are filling your tank to the top, do not persist after the 3rd cut-off; this could cause malfunctions.
The petrol or Diesel engine of your vehicle is fitted with a catalytic converter, a device which helps to reduce the level of harmful emissions in the exhaust gases.
For petrol engines, you must use unleaded fuel.
The filler neck is narrower, allowing only unleaded petrol nozzles to be introduced.
If you have put in the wrong fuel for your vehicle, you must have the fuel tank drained and filled with the correct fuel before starting the engine.
Fuel cut-off
Your vehicle is equipped with a safety device which cuts off the fuel supply in the event of a collision.
 
Mistuel prevention (Diesel)*
Mechanical device which prevents filling the tank of a Diesel vehicle with petrol. It avoids the risk of engine damage that can result from filling with the wrong fuel.
Operation
When a petrol filler nozzle is introduced into the fuel filler neck of your Diesel vehicle, it comes into contact with the flap. The system remains closed and prevents filling.
Do not persist but introduce a Diesel type filler nozzle.
* Depending on country of sale.
=e
It remains possible to use a fuel can to fill the tank.
In order to ensure a good flow of fuel, do not place the nozzle of the fuel can in direct contact with the flap of the misfuel prevention device and pour slowly.
F= e
Practical information
Travelling abroad
As Diesel fuel pump nozzles may
be different in other countries, the presence of the misfuel prevention device may make refuelling impossible. Before travelling abroad, we recommend that you check with the CITROËN dealer network, whether your vehicle is suitable for the fuel pumps in the country in which you want to travel.
9
163
164
Practical information
Quality of the fuel used for petrol engines
The petrol engines are perfectly compatible with E10 type petrol biofuels (containing 10 % ethanol), conforming to European standards EN 228 and EN 15376.
E85 type fuels (containing up to 85 % ethanol) are reserved exclusively for vehicles marketed for the use of this type of fuel (BioFlex vehicles). The quality of the ethanol must comply with European standard EN 15293. For Brazil only, special vehicles are marketed to run on fuels containing up to 100 % ethanol (E100 type).
 
Quality of the fuel used for Diesel engines
The Diesel engines are perfectly compatible with biofuels which conform to current and future European standards (Diesel fuel
which complies with standard EN 590 mixed with a biofuel which complies with standard EN 14214) available at the pumps (containing up to 7 % Fatty Acid Methyl Ester).
The B30 biofuel can be used in certain Diesel engines; however, this use is subject to strict application of the special servicing conditions. Contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
The use of any other type of (bio)fuel (vegetable or animal oils, pure or diluted, domestic fuel...) is strictly prohibited (risk of damage to the engine and fuel system).
 
 
Running out of fuel (Diesel)
On vehicles fitted with HDi engines, the fuel system must be primed if you run out of fuel.
f1 ‘If the engine does not start first time, don't keep trying but start the procedure again from the beginning.
ne 92 engine
d
d
Fill the fuel tank with at least five litres of diesel.
Open the bonnet.
If necessary, unclip the styling cover for access to the priming pump.
Squeeze and release the priming pump repeatedly until resistance is felt (there may be resistance at the first press). Operate the starter until the engine starts (if the engine does not start at the first attempt, wait around 15 seconds before trying again).
If the engine does not start after a few attempts, operate the priming pump again then start the engine.
Clip the styling cover back in place. Close the bonnet.
Practical information
Blue HDi 100 engine
@ Fill the fuel tank with at least five litres of Diesel.
* Switch on the ignition (without starting the engine).
e Wait around 6 seconds and switch off the ignition.
ze Repeat the operation 10 times.
* Operate the starter to run the engine.
165
166
Practical information
AdBlue® additive and SCR system for Blue HDi Diesel engines
To assure respect for the environment and conformity with the new Euro 6 emissions standard, without adversely affecting the performance or fuel consumption of Diesel engines, CITROEN has taken the decision to equip its vehicles with an effective system that associates SCR (Selective Catalytic Reduction) with a particle emissions filter (PEF) for the treatment of exhaust gases.
Presentation of the SCR system
Using an additive called AdBlue® containing urea, a Catalytic converter turns up to 85% of nitrous oxides (NOx) into nitrogen and water, which are harmless to health and the environment.
 
The AdBlue® additive is held in a special
tank located under the boot at the rear of
the vehicle. It has a capacity of 17 litres: this provides a driving range of about 12 500 miles (20 000 km), after which an alert is triggered warning you when the reserve remaining Is enough for just 1 500 miles (2 400 km).
During each scheduled service of your vehicle by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop, the AdBlue® additive tank is refilled in order to allow normal operation of the SCR system.
If the estimated mileage between two services is greater than 12 500 miles (20 000 km), we recommend that you go to a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop to have the necessary top-up carried out.
Once the AdBlue® tank is empty, a system required by regulations prevents starting of the engine.
If the SCR is faulty, the level of emissions from your vehicle will no longer meet the Euro 6 standard: you vehicle becomes polluting.
In the event of a confirmed fault
with the SCR system, you must go
to a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop as soon as possible: after a running distance of 650 miles
(1 100 km), a system will be triggered automatically to prevent engine starting.
Range indicators
When switching on the ignition, an indicator gives an estimate of the distance that can
be travelled with your vehicle before engine starting is automatically prevented, once the vehicle starts using the reserve of AdBlue® or after a fault is detected with the SCR system.
In the event of simultaneous system fault and low AdBlue® level, the shortest range is the one displayed.
Practical information
In the event of the risk of non-starting related to a lack of AdBlue®
The engine start prevention system required by regulations is activated automatically once the AdBlue® tank is empty.
 
Range greater than 1 500 miles (2 400 km) When switching on the ignition, no information on range is displayed automatically in the instrument panel.
You can access this information in the touch screen tablet.
* Select the "Driving assistance" menu.
E
CHECK
In the secondary page, press on "Diagnostic".
9
The remaining driving range is displayed temporarily.
Above 3 000 miles (5 000 km), the value is not specified.
167
168
Practical information
Remaining range between 350 and 1500 miles (600 and 2 400 km)
 
When switching on the ignition, the
UREA warning lamp comes on, accompanied by an audible signal and the display of a message (e.g.: "Top up emissions additive: Starting prevented in 900 miles") indicating the remaining range expressed in miles or kilometres.
When driving, the message is displayed every 150 miles (800 km) until the additive tank has been topped-up.
Go to a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop to have the AdBlue® tank topped-up. You can also top-up the tank yourself.
Refer to the "Topping-up" section.
Remaining range between 0 and 350 miles (0 and 600 km)
SUREAZ SUREAC SERVICE
 
When switching on the ignition, the SERVICE warning lamp comes on and the UREA warning lamp flashes, accompanied by an audible signal and the display of a message (e.g. "Top up emissions additive: Starting prevented in 350 miles") indicating the remaining range expressed in miles or kilometres.
When driving, the message is displayed every 30 seconds until the additive tank has been topped-up.
Go to a CITROËN dealer or a qualified workshop to have the AdBlue® tank topped-up. You can also top-up the tank yourself.
Refer to the "Topping-up" section.
If you fail to do this, there is a risk that you will not be able to start your engine.
Breakdown related to a lack of AdBlue® additive
SUREAZ SUREAC SERVICE
 
When switching on the ignition, the SERVICE warning lamp comes on and the UREA warning lamp flashes, accompanied by an audible signal and the display of the message "Top up emissions additive: Starting prevented".
The AdBlue® tank is empty: the system required by regulations prevents engine starting.
To be able to start the engine,
we recommend that you call on
a CITROËN dealer or a qualified workshop for the top-up required. If you carry out the top-up yourself, it is essential to add at least 3.8 litres of AdBlue® to the tank.
Refer to the "Topping-up" section.
In the event of a fault with the the SCR emissions control system
A system that prevents engine starting is activated automatically from 650 miles
(1 100 km) after confirmation of a fault with the SCR emissions control system. Have the system checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop as soon as possible.
In the event of the detection of a fault
UREA SERVICE CL
When switching on the ignition, the UREA, SERVICE and diagnostic warning lamps comes on, accompanied by an audible signal and the display of a message "Emissions fault" to signal a fault with the emissions control system.
=  Ilfitis atemporary fault, the alert disappears once the exhaust gas emissions return to normal.
 
Practical information
During an authorised driving phase (between 650 miles and 0 miles) (1 100 km and 0 km)
ege: E Sue CL
If a fault with the SCR system is confirmed (after 30 miles (50 km) covered with the permanent display of the message signalling
a fault), when switching on the ignition, the SERVICE and engine diagnostic warning lamps come on and the UREA warning lamp flashes, accompanied by an audible signal and the display of a message (e.g.: "Emissions fault: Starting prevented in 150 miles") indicating the remaining range express in miles or kilometres. While driving, the message is displayed every 30 seconds while the fault with the SCR system persists.
You should go to a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop as soon as possible.
If you fail to do this, there is a risk that you will not be able to start your engine.
 
9
169
170
Practical information
Starting prevented
~UREAZ TARRAT SERVICE C
Every time the ignition is switched on, the SERVICE and engine diagnostic warning lamps come on and the UREA warning lamp flashes, accompanied by an audible signal and the display of the message "Emissions fault: Starting prevented".
f You have exceeded the authorised driving limit: the starting prevention system inhibits engine starting.
To be able to start the engine, you must call on a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
 
j= oe
Freezing of the AdBlue® additive
The AdBlue® additive freezes at temperatures below around -11°C.
The SCR system includes a heater for the AdBlue® tank.
In exceptional circumstances (vehicle kept for a long period at temperatures that are constantly below -15°C), an emissions control system fault alert may be related to freezing of the AdBlue® in your vehicle.
Park your vehicle in a warmer area for a few hours until the additive becomes liquid again.
The emissions alert does not go off immediately, it will occur after several mile of running.
Topping-up the AdBlue® additive
Filling the AdBlue® tank is an operation included in every routine service on your vehicle by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
Nevertheless, given the capacity of the tank, it may be necessary to top-up the additive between services, more particularly if an alert (warning lamps and a message) signals the requirement.
You can got to a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
If you envisage topping-up yourself, please read the following warnings carefully.
Precautions in use
The AdBlue® additive is an urea-based solution. This liquid is non-flammable, colourless and odourless (kept in a cool area). In the event of contact with the skin, wash
the affected area with soap and water. In the event of contact with the eyes, wash (irrigate) the eyes with large amounts of water or with an eye wash solution for at least 15 minutes. If a burning sensation or irritation persists, get medical attention.
If swallowed, immediately wash out the mouth
with clean water and then drink plenty of water.
In certain conditions (high ambient temperature, for example), the risk of release of ammonia cannot be excluded: do not inhale the product. Ammonia vapour has en irritant effect on mucous membranes (eyes, nose and throat).
Keep AdBlue® out of the reach of children, in its original bottle. Never transfer AdBlue® to another container: it would loose its purity.
Practical information
Use only AdBlue® additive that meets the ISO 22241 standard.
} Never dilute the additive with water. ° Never pour the additive into the Diesel fuel tank.
i AdBlue”
The supply in non-drip bottles simplifies toping- up. You can obtain 1.89 litre (half US gallon) bottles from a CITROËN dealer or a qualified workshop.
į} Never top-up from an AdBlue® dispenser reserved for heavy goods vehicles.
171
172
Practical information
Recommendations on storage
AdBlue® freezes at about -11°C and deteriorates above 25°C. It is recommended that bottles be stored in a cool area and protected from direct sunlight.
Under these conditions, the additive can be kept for at least a year.
Additive that has been frozen can be used once it has thawed out.
) Never store bottles of AdBlue® in your ° vehicle.
Procedure
Before topping-up, ensure that the vehicle is
parked on a flat and level surface.
In wintry conditions, ensure that the temperature of the vehicle is above -11°C. Otherwise, by freezing, the AdBlue® cannot
be poured into its tank. Park your vehicle in a warmer area for a few hours to allow the top-up
to be carried out.
* Switch off the ignition and remove the key.
ze For access to the AdBlue® tank, raise the boot carpet then, depending on equipment, lift out
the spare wheel and/or the storage box.
_—— =,
sA 14} Ý
æ Without pressing, turn the black cap a quarter turn anti-clockwise and lift it off.
1/6
e Turn the blue cap a 6" of a turn anti-clockwise. Lift off the cap.
d
Oey
ze Obtain a bottle of AdBlue®. After first checking the use-by date, read carefully the instructions on use on the label before pouring the contents of the bottle into your vehicle's AdBlue® tank.
Important: if your vehicle's AdBlue® tank is completely empty - which is confirmed by the alert messages and the impossibility of starting the engine, you must add at least 3.8 litres (so two 1.89 litre bottles).
e After emptying the bottle, wipe away any spillage around the tank filler using a damp cloth.
If any additive is split or solashed, wash immediately with cold water or wipe with a damp cloth.
If the additive has crystallised, clean it off using a sponge and hot water.
e Refit the blue cap to the tank and turn ita 6" of a turn clockwise, to its stop.
ze Refit the black cap and turn it a quarter of a turn clockwise without pressing. Ensure that the indicator on the cap lines up with the indicator on the support.
ze Depending on equipment, return the spare wheel and/or the storage box to the bottom of the boot.
e Refit the boot carpet and close the tailgate.
Practical information
Important: in the event of a top-up after a breakdown because of a lack of additive, signalled by the message "Top up emissions additive: Starting prevented", you must wait around 5 minutes before switching on the ignition, without opening the driver's door, locking the vehicle
or introducing the key into the ignition switch.
Switch on the ignition, then, after
10 seconds, start the engine.
Never dispose of AdBlue® additive bottles in the household waste. Place them in a special container provided this purpose or take them to your dealer.
9
173
174
Practical information
Temporary puncture repair kit
Complete system consisting of a compressor Access to the kit
and a sealant cartridge which permits temporary repair of a tyre so that you can drive to the nearest garage.
It is designed to repair most punctures which could affect the tyre, located on the tyre tread or shoulder.
   
= 9 | oa
Zeie,
 
List of tools
This kit is installed in the storage box, under the These tools are specific to your vehicle and can vary according to equipment. Do not use them for other purposes. 1. 12 V compressor. Contains a sealant cartridge for the temporary repair of a tyre and can also be used for adjusting tyre pressures. 2. Towing eye. See the "Towing" section.
boot floor.
 
The tyre inflation pressures are given on this label.
Description of the kit
no eS
Practical information
 
"Sealant" or "Air" position selector. F. On "I" / off "O" switch. G. Deflation button. H. Pressure gauge (in bar and p.s.i.). l. Compartment housing: - a cable with adaptor for 12 V socket, - various inflation adaptors for
accessories, such as balls, bicycle
tyres...
aoe
Sealant cartridge.
White pipe with cap for repair. Black pipe for inflation. Speed limit sticker.
9
The speed limit sticker I must be affixed to the vehicle's steering wheel to remind you that a wheel is in temporary use. Do not exceed a speed of 50 mph
(80 km/h) when driving with a tyre repaired using this type of kit.
175
176
Practical information
Repair procedure
 
1. Sealing
= Switch off the ignition.
ze Turn the selector A to the "sealant" position. Lë
Check that the switch B is in position "O".
Avoid removing any foreign bodies which have penetrated into the tyre.
d
Uncoil the white pipe G fully.
Unscrew the cap from the white pipe. Connect the white pipe to the valve of the tyre to be repaired.
Take care, this product is harmful (e.g. ethylene-glycol, colophony...) if swallowed and causes irritation to the eyes.
Keep this product out of the reach of children.
=e
 
Connect the compressor's electric plug to the vehicle's 12 V socket.
Start the vehicle and leave the engine running.
Do not start the compressor before connecting the white pipe to the tyre valve: the sealant product would be expelled through the pipe.
 
LS"
1
Switch on the compressor by moving
the switch B to position pressure reaches 2.0 bars.
The sealant is injected into the tyre under pressure; do not disconnect the pipe from the valve during this operation (risk of splashing).
until the tyre
If after around 5 to 7 minutes the pressure is not attained, this indicates that the tyre is not repairable; contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop for assistance.
Remove the kit and screw the cap back on the white pipe.
Take care to avoid staining your vehicle with traces of fluid. Keep the kit to hand. Drive immediately for approximately
three miles (five kilometres), at reduced speed (between 15 and 35 mph (20 and 60 km/h)), to plug the puncture.
Stop to check the repair and the tyre pressure using the kit.
Ele
Practical information
Tyre under-inflation 9 detection
After repair of the tyre, the warning lamp will remain on until the system is reinitialised.
For more information, refer to the "Under-inflation detection" section.
177
Practical information
 
 
2. Inflation
AR
LS"
 
178
Turn the selector A to the "air" position. Uncoil the black pipe H fully. e
Connect the black pipe to the valve of the wheel.
 
Connect the compressor's electric plug to the vehicle's 12 V socket.
Start the vehicle again and leave the engine running.
As soon as possible, go to a CITROËN dealer or a qualified workshop.
You must inform the technician that you have used this kit. After inspection, the technician will advise you on whether the tyre can be repaired or if it must be replaced.
  
-Q
Adjust the pressure using the compressor (to inflate: switch B in position "I"; to deflate: switch B in position "O" and press button ©), in accordance with the vehicle's tyre pressure label (located on the left hand door aperture).
A loss of pressure indicates that the puncture has not been fully plugged; contact a CITROËN dealer or qualified workshop for assistance.
Remove and stow the kit.
Drive at reduced speed (50 mph [80 km/h] max) limiting the distance travelled to approximately 120 miles (200 km).
Removing the cartridge
d
d
Tee wl | |
| |. f ` hy
  
Stow the black pipe.
Detach the angled base from the white pipe.
Support the compressor vertically. Unscrew the cartridge from the bottom.
Beware of discharges of fluid.
The expiry date of the fluid is indicated on the cartridge.
The sealant cartridge is designed for single use; even if only partly used, it must be replaced.
After use, do not discard the cartridge into the environment, take it to an authorised waste disposal site or a CITROEN dealer.
Do not forget to obtain a new sealant cartridge, available from CITROEN dealers or from a qualified workshop.
Practical information
179
180
Practical information
Checking tyre pressures / inflating accessories
 
You can also use the compressor, without
injecting any product, to:
- check or adjust the pressure of your tyres,
- inflate other accessories (balls, bicycle tyres...).
ze Turn the selector A to the "Air" j position. e Uncoil the black pipe H fully. = Connect the black pipe to the valve of the wheel or accessory.
If necessary, fit one of the adaptors supplied with the kit first.
 
d
d
Connect the compressor's electrical connector to the vehicle's 12 V socket. Start the vehicle and let the engine run. Adjust the pressure using the compressor (to inflate: switch B in position "I"; to deflate: switch B in position "O" and press button C), according to the vehicle's tyre pressure label or the accessory's pressure label.
Remove the kit then stow it.
Should the pressure of one or more tyres be adjusted, it is necessary to reinitialise the under-inflation detection system.
Refer to the "Under-inflation detection" section.
 
Changing a wheel
Procedure for changing a wheel for the spare wheel using the tools provided with the vehicle.
Access to the tools
 
The tools are installed in the boot under the floor, or may be located, depending on version, under the front passenger seat.
 
Practical information
List of tools
All of these tools are specific to your
vehicle and can vary according to the level
of equipment. Do not use them for other
purposes.
1. Wheelbrace. For removing the wheel trim and the wheel bolts.
2. Jack with integral handle. For raising the vehicle.
3. Bolt cover removal tool. For removing the bolt covers on alloy wheels or the central wheel cap (depending on version).
4. Towing eye.
Refer to the "Towing" section.
Wheel with trim 9
When refitting the wheel, refit the trim starting by placing its notch facing the valve and press around its edge with the palm of your hand.
181
Practical information a OO
Spare wheel (depending on version)
  
The spare wheel is installed in the boot under Taking out the wheel Putting the wheel back in place BEES e Unscrew the yellow central bolt. e Put the wheel back in its housing. = Unclip the tool storage box by pulling on it. zc Raise the spare wheel towards you from e Unscrew the yellow central bolt by a few the rear. turns then put it in place in the centre of the zc Take the wheel out of the boot. wheel.
e Tighten fully until the central bolt clicks to retain the wheel correctly. = Clip the tool storage box back into place.
182
TTT tS Practical information
Removing a wheel
1 Parking the vehicle į Do notuse: S - the jack for any other purpose than
lifting the vehicle, - ajack other than the one supplied by the manufacturer.
Immobilise the vehicle where it does not block traffic: the ground must be level, stable and not slippery.
Apply the parking brake, switch off the ignition and engage first gear to block the wheels.
Check that the parking brake warning lamps in the instrument panel come on. The occupants must get out of the vehicle and wait where they are safe.
 
Ensure that the jack is correctly List of operations
positioned at one of the vehicle's # Remove the bolt cover(s) using the tool 3 jacking points. (depending on version).
Incorrect use of the jack could cause æ  Slacken the bolts using the wheelbrace 1 only.
the vehicle to drop. Never go underneath a vehicle raised
using a jack; use an axle stand. 9
183
Practical information
 
ze Place the jack 2 in contact with one of the two front A or rear B locations provided on the underbody, whichever is closest to the wheel to be changed.
184
d
Extend the jack 2 until its base plate is in contact with the ground. Ensure that the centreline of the jack base plate is directly below the location A or B used.
Raise the vehicle until there is sufficient space between the wheel and the ground to admit the spare (not punctured) wheel easily.
e Remove the bolts and store them in a clean place. e Remove the wheel.
Fitting a wheel
ZS $
 
þm o
j= o
Fitting the spare wheel
If your vehicle is fitted with alloy wheels, when tightening the bolts on fitting, it is normal to notice that the washers do not come into contact with the spare wheel. The wheel is secured by the conical surface of each bolt.
After changing a wheel
Have the tightening of the bolts and the pressure of the spare wheel checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop without delay.
Have the punctured wheel repaired and refitted to the vehicle as soon as possible.
Practical information
 
List of operations
e Put the wheel in place on the hub. * Screw in the bolts fully by hand. = Pre-tighten the bolts using the wheelbrace 1 only.
9
185
Practical information L O
 
e Lower the vehicle fully. e Tighten the bolts using the wheelbrace 1 only. @ Fold the jack 2 and detach it. ze Refit the bolt cover(s) (depending on version).
186
 
Snow chains
In wintry conditions, snow chains improve traction as well as the behaviour of the vehicle when
braking.
The snow chains must be fitted only to the front wheels. They must never be fitted to "space-saver" type spare wheels.
Use only the chains designed to be fitted to the type of wheel fitted to your vehicle:
Maximum link size.
Original tyre size
195/65 R15
205/55 R16
205/50 R17
cannot be fitted with chains
 
For more information on snow chains, contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
Take account of the legislation in force in your country on the use of snow chains and the maximum running speed authorised.
þm e
Practical information
Advice on installation
LS"
If you have to fit the chains during a journey, stop the vehicle on a flat surface on the side of the road.
Apply the parking brake and position any wheel chocks to prevent movement of your vehicle.
Fit the chains following the instructions provided by the manufacturer.
Move off gently and drive for a few moments, without exceeding 30 mph
(50 km/h).
Stop your vehicle and check that the snow chains are correctly tightened.
Avoid driving with snow chains on roads that have been cleared of snow, to avoid damaging your vehicle's tyres and the road surface. It is recommended that before you leave, you practise fitting the snow chains on a level and dry surface. If your vehicle is fitted with alloy wheels, check that no part of the chain or its fixings is in contact with the wheel rim.
187
188
Practical information
Changing a bulb
Front lamps
=
Daytime running lamps / Sidelamps (LEDs).
Dipped beam headlamps (H7).
Main beam headlamps (H1). Direction indicators (PY21W).
Front foglamps (PS24W).
SE Ze
=e
In some weather conditions (e.g. low temperature or humidity), the presence of misting on the internal surface of the glass of the headlamps and rear lamps is normal; it disappears after the lamps have been on for a few minutes.
The headlamps are fitted with polycarbonate glass with a protective coating:
ze do not clean them using a dry or abrasive cloth, nor with a detergent or solvent product,
= use a sponge and soapy water or a pH neutral product,
e when using a high pressure washer on persistent marks, do not keep the lance directed towards the lamps or their edges for too long, so as not to damage their protective coating and seals.
Changing a bulb should only be done after the headlamp has been switched off for several minutes (risk of serious burns). e Do not touch the bulb directly with your fingers, use a lint-free cloth. It is imperative to use only anti- ultraviolet (UV) type bulbs to avoid damaging the headlamp. Always replace a failed bulb with a new bulb with the same type and specification.
 
Daytime running lamps / Sidelamps (LEDs)
For the replacement of the light-emitting diodes (LEDs), contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
 
Dipped beam headlamps
ze Remove the protective cover by pulling on the tab.
ze Take the connector and bulb holder, then lift the assembly upwards to unclip it.
ze Remove the assembly of connector and bulb holder.
Practical information
e Disconnect the bulb connector. ze Remove the bulb and change it.
reverse order, positioning the alignment lug
To reassemble, carry out these operations in at the top. 9
189
190
Practical information
 
Main beam headlamps
ze Remove the protective cover by pulling on the tab. ze Disconnect the bulb connector (do not
remove the earth connector located below).
e Push on the spring, then move it towards the middle of the vehicle to release the bulb.
= Remove the bulb and change it.
To reassemble, carry out these operations in reverse order.
 
Direction indicators
- Rapid flashing of the direction indicator i Amber coloured bulbs, such as the warning lamp (right or left) indicates the direction indicators, must be replaced failure of a bulb on that side. with bulbs of identical specifications
and colour.
e Turn the bulb holder an eighth of a turn anti-clockwise and extract it. = Remove the bulb and change it.
To reassemble, carry out these operations in reverse order.
S/ Front foglamps
= Below the front bumper, unscrew the 3 wheel arch liner fixing screws.
= Move the wheel arch liner aside to allow access to the front foglamp.
e Disconnect the connector from the bulb holder by pressing on its tab, located at the top.
 
= Remove the bulb holder by squeezing the two clips (top and bottom) with thumb and finger.
+} Replace the module (bulb holder and bulb).
To reassemble, carry out these operations in reverse order.
Practical information
You can also contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop for the replacement of these bulbs.
9
191
192
Practical information
Direction indicator side repeaters
ze Insert a screwdriver in the edge of the repeater.
e Lever with the screwdriver to extract the repeater and pull it out.
e Disconnect the wiring from the repeater.
ze Replace the module.
To obtain a new module, contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
3 While removing the module: 1 - take care not to damage your vehicle's paintwork with the screwdriver, - do not allow the wiring and connector to slip behind the wing.
To refit, carry out these operations in reverse order.
=e
If you experience any difficulty in replacing these lamps, you can contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
Rear lamps
Sidelamps (W5W).
Brake lamps (P21W).
Direction indicators (PY21W). Foglamp or reversing lamp (P21W).
ae NS
  
Changing bulbs
These bulbs are changed from inside the boot.
e Open the boot.
e Remove the corresponding access cover in the trim panel.
e Disconnect the lamp unit connector by pressing the locking button (located under the connector for the right hand lamp and above the connector for the left hand lamp),
ze Slacken and remove the nut (take care not to drop it inside the wing).
ze Press down on the retaining clip for lamp unit, then carefully remove it towards the outside.
Practical information
A ` Ce ee Ce
e Spread the bulb holder retainers and remove the bulb holder. ze Replace the failed bulb: - for the sidelamp, pull the bulb (the upper one) out,
- forthe other lamps, turn the corresponding bulb (lower) a quarter turn.
To reassemble, carry out these operations in reverse order.
i Take care to engage the lamp unit in its guides, while keeping it in line with the vehicle.
Tighten sufficiently to ensure sealing, but without damaging the lamp.
193
194
Practical information
Third brake lamp (LEDs)
For the replacement of the light-emitting diodes (LEDs), contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
Number plate lamps (W5W)
Insert a thin screwdriver into one of the cutouts in the the lens.
e Push it outwards to unclip it.
ze Remove the lens.
e Change the faulty bulb.
To refit, press on the lens to clip it in place.
Interior lighting
 
Courtesy lamp with bulbs (W5W)
LS"
Using a small flat blade screwdriver, unclip the console assembly surrounding the courtesy lamp.
Remove the failed bulb and change it. Refit the console around the courtesy
lamp, ensuring that it is clipped in correctly.
Courtesy lamp with LEDs
For the replacement of the light-emitting diodes (LEDs), contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
Practical information
Boot (W5W)
e Unclip the lamp by pushing the body from
behind. ze Remove the bulb and change. ze Refit the lamp.
9
195
196
Practical information
Changing a fuse Access to the tools
 
The extraction tweezer is fitted to the back of the cover of the dashboard fuseboxes.
e Unclip the cover by pulling at the top left, then right.
+ Disengage the cover completely and turn it over,
æ Remove the tweezer from the back of the cover.
Changing a fuse
Before changing a fuse:
e:
the cause of the failure must be identified and rectified,
all electrical consumers must b
switched off,
the vehicle must be immobilised with the ignition off,
identify the failed fuse using the tables and layout drawings in the following pages.
To replace a fuse, you must:
e:
use the special tweezer to extract the fuse from its housing and check the condition of its filament.
always replace the failed fuse with a fuse of the same rating (Same colour); using
a different rating could cause faults (risk
of fire).
If the fuse fails again soon after replacement, have the vehicle's electrical system checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
WM
ef
Good Failed
 
Tweezer
The replacement of a fuse not shown in the tables below may cause a serious malfunction of your vehicle. Contact
a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
1
Installing electrical accessories
Your vehicle's electrical system is designed to operate with standard or optional equipment.
Before installing other electrical equipment or accessories on your vehicle, contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
CITROEN will not accept responsibility for the cost incurred in repairing your vehicle or for rectifying malfunctions resulting from the installation of accessories not supplied and not recommended by CITROEN and
not installed in accordance with its instructions, in particular when the combined consumption of all of the additional equipment connected exceeds 10 milliamperes.
Practical information
197
Practical information
Dashboard fuses Left hand fusebox
Headlamp bean height adjuster, additional heater (Diesel), parking sensors, diagnostic socket, door mirrors (electric adjustment).
 
` . Diesel additive pump, electric power steering, clutch pedal
The 2 fuseboxes are placed in the lower (switch). dashboard, below the steering wheel. Rain and sunshine sensor.
Access to the fuses Brake pedal (switch 1), diagnostic socket. e Unclip the cover by pulling at top left, then Top of steering column contacts with steering mounted controls. right.
Emergency call / Assistance call. Stop & Start, ABS, ESC.
Parking sensors, reversing camera.
Electronic gearbox, switch panel (below the touch screen tablet), air conditioning, touch screen tablet.
12 Volt socket.
  
198
TE Practical information
Rating
(A) pm | mp | Seatbeltunfastened warning. min um mz (remm mm Ia s
mm 1 5 | Courtesy lamp map reading lamp. ooe os eon mm | mm | Frontandrearsoreemwash, oo æ | 8 (nemme mn (nmn
 
199
200
Practical information
Right hand fuse box
Rating
(A) nm | w mm nm ` sm `
em a reen o a mme em a men ` rm zs mme
 
   
REI? OR
Engine compartment fuses
The fusebox is placed in the engine compartment near the battery.
Access to the fuses
ze Unclip the cover.
e Change the fuse (See corresponding
paragraph).
e When you have finished, close the cover carefully to ensure correct sealing of the
fusebox.
 
EIERE wl [rar] [iia] Ka be
 
Practical information
Kli mm (A)
SO) eae 2 D | a | Passenger compartmenttusebor, D JL "8 | Passenger compartmenttusebor, — E Ee DP | a Loge gaer weree at Fe | 1B __ | Engine management, petrol pump. — D | 15 Lëgeerasgene `, D JL sg | Engine management, Dm JL 2 | Enginemanagement, |) 4 ees ss ees |) a ee ee eee C ee EE Ee
 
201
202
Practical information
 
 
 
ee (A)
o seenen OOOO RE BCEE EE OO mn en mn mm E ` mu renens ee onserem OOOO EE OO mu reene a reesen mm eneen OOO RE O
 
 
Practical information
12 V battery
Procedure for starting the engine using another battery or charging a discharged battery.
ATTENTION WwëbRHMIhMG
Before doing any work Access to the battery
Immobilise the vehicle: apply the
parking brake, put the gearbox in (See, neutral, then switch off the ignition. |
Check that all electrical equipment is | | switched off.
 
f The presence of this label, in particular | | | ° with the Stop & Start system, indicates | | the use of a 12 V lead-acid battery with | l | special technology and specification; Sf j the involvement of a CITROËN dealer PS or a qualified workshop is essential when replacing or disconnecting the The battery is located under the bonnet. battery. For access to the (+) terminal: * release the bonnet using the interior lever, then the exterior safety catch, ze raise the bonnet and secure it with its stay, i After refitting the battery, the Stop & e lift the plastic cover for access to the (+) Start system will only be active after a terminal. continuous period of immobilisation of the
vehicle, a period which depends on the climatic conditions and the state of charge of the battery (up to about 8 hours).
203
Practical information
 
Disconnecting the (+) cable Reconnecting the (+) cable ze Raise the locking tab D fully to release the * Position the open clamp E of the cable on cable terminal clamp E. the positive post (+) of the battery.
ze Press vertically on the clamp E to position it correctly on the battery.
ze Lock the clamp by spreading the positioning lug and then lowering the tab D.
Do not apply excessive force on the tab as locking will not be possible if the clamp is not positioned correctly; start the procedure again.
204
Starting using another battery
When your vehicle's battery is discharged, the engine can be started using a slave battery (external or on another vehicle) and jump lead cables.
į} First check that the slave battery has a ° nominal voltage of 12 V and a capacity at least equal to that of the discharged battery. Do not try to start the engine by connecting a battery charger. Do not disconnect the (+) terminal when the engine is running.
e Remove the plastic cover from the (+) terminal, if your vehicle has one.
ze Connect the red cable to the positive terminal (+) of the flat battery A, then to the positive terminal (+) of the slave battery B.
= Connect one end of the green or black cable to the negative terminal (-) of the slave battery B (or earth point on the other vehicle).
* Connect the other end of the green or black cable to the earth point C on the broken down vehicle (or on the engine mounting).
e Start the engine of the vehicle with the good battery and leave it running for a few minutes.
 
Operate the starter on the broken down vehicle and let the engine run.
If the engine does not start straight away, switch off the ignition and wait a few moments before trying again.
Wait until the engine returns to idle then disconnect the jump lead cables in the reverse order.
Refit the plastic cover to the (+) terminal, if your vehicle has one.
Practical information
Before disconnecting the battery
Wait 2 minutes after switching off the ignition before disconnecting the battery.
Close the windows and the doors before disconnecting the battery.
Following reconnection of the battery
Following reconnection of the battery, switch on
the ignition and wait 1 minute before starting to
permit initialisation of the electronic systems.
However, if problems remain following this
operation, contact a CITROEN dealer or a
qualified workshop. 9 Referring to the corresponding section, you
must yourself reinitialise (depending on
version):
- the remote control key,
205
206
Practical information
Charging the battery using a battery charger
With Stop & Start, the battery does not have to be disconnected for charging.
Disconnect the battery from the vehicle.
Follow the instructions for use provided by
the manufacturer of the charger. Connect the battery starting with the negative terminal (-).
Check that the terminals and connectors
are clean. If they are covered with sulphate (whitish or greenish deposit), remove them
and clean them.
p= o
The batteries contain harmful substances such as sulphuric acid and lead. They must be disposed of in accordance
with regulations and must not, in any circumstances, be discarded with household waste.
Take used remote control batteries and
vehicle batteries to a special collection point.
It is advisable to disconnect the battery if the vehicle is to be left unused for more than one month.
Protect your eyes and face before handling the battery.
All operations on the battery must be carried out in a well ventilated area and away from naked flames and sources of sparks, so as to avoid the risk of explosion or fire.
Do not try to charge a frozen battery; the battery must first be thawed out to avoid the risk of explosion. If the battery has been frozen, before charging have it checked by a CITROËN dealer or a qualified workshop who will check that the internal components have not been damaged and the casing is not cracked, which could cause a leak of toxic and corrosive acid.
Do not reverse the polarity and use only a 12 V charger.
Do not disconnect the terminals while the engine is running.
Do not charge the batteries without disconnecting the terminals first.
Wash your hands afterwards.
Do not push the vehicle to start the engine if the vehicle is fitted with the electronic gearbox.
 
Load reduction mode
System which manages the use of certain functions according to the level of charge remaining in the battery.
When the vehicle is being driven, the load reduction function temporarily deactivates certain functions, such as the air conditioning, the heated rear screen...
The deactivated functions are reactivated automatically as soon as conditions permit.
Practical information
Energy economy mode
System which manages the duration of use of certain functions to conserve a sufficient level of charge in the battery.
After the engine has stopped, you can still use functions such as the audio and telematics system, windscreen wipers, dipped beam headlamps, courtesy lamps, etc. for a maximum combined duration of about
forty minutes.
Switching to economy mode
A message then appears in the instrument panel screen indicating that the vehicle has switched to economy mode and the active functions are put on standby.
If a telephone call is being made at this time, it will be maintained for around 10 minutes with the Bluetooth hands-free system of your audio system.
Exiting economy mode
These functions are reactivated automatically next time the vehicle is driven. In order to restore the use of these functions immediately, start the engine and let it run: - for less than ten minutes, to use the equipment for approximately five minutes, - for more than ten minutes, to use the equipment for up to approximately thirty minutes. Let the engine run for the duration specified to ensure that the battery charge is sufficient. Do not repeatedly and continuously restart the engine in order to charge the battery. A flat battery prevents the engine from starting (refer to the "Battery" section).
207
Practical information o OO
Changing a wiper blade
Before removing a front Fitting
wiper blade e Put the corresponding new wiper blade in place and Clip it.
* Connect the screenwash delivery pipe to the jet on the wiper blade.
ze Fold down the wiper arm carefully.
  
e Within one minute after switching off
the ignition, operate the wiper stalk to . T à n the e blades a on the Removing After fitting a front wiper windscreen. * Raise the corresponding wiper arm. blade @ Pull on the screenwash delivery pipe to æ Switch on the ignition. disconnect it from the jet (located on the æ Operate the wiper stalk again to park the wiper blade). wiper blades.
e Unclip the wiper blade and remove it.
208
 
Towing
Practical information
Procedure for having your vehicle towed or for towing another vehicle using a removable towing eye.
The towing eye is stowed under the boot floor, or may be located under the front passenger
General recommendations
seat, depending on version. Observe the legislation in force in your country. Ensure that the weight of the towing vehicle is higher than that of the towed vehicle. The driver must remain at the wheel of the towed vehicle and must have a valid driving licence. When towing a vehicle with all four wheels on the ground, always use an approved towing arm; rope and straps are prohibited. The towing vehicle must move off gently. When towing a vehicle with the engine off, there is no longer any power assistance for braking or steering. In the following cases, you must always call on a professional recovery service:
vehicle broken down on a motorway or fast road,
four-wheel drive vehicle,
when it is not possible to put the gearbox into neutral, unlock the steering, or release the parking brake,
towing with only two wheels on the ground,
where there is no approved towing arm available...
209
Practical information
Towing the vehicle
ff
i "ës
es, Lasch, A m aT — E A E SS ——— ey oe i
Vara
* On the front bumper, press at the bottom of e Unlock the steering by turning the ignition the cover to unclip it. key one notch and release the parking
zz Screw the towing eye in fully. brake. e Install a towing arm. e Switch on the hazard warning lamps on e Put the gear lever into neutral (control N both vehicles. for an electronic gearbox). e Move off gently and drive slowly over a short distance only. { Failure to follow this instruction could e
lead to damage to certain components (brakes, transmission, ...) and the absence of braking assistance on restarting the engine.
210
Towing another vehicle
On the rear bumper, press the bottom of the cover to unclip it.
Screw the towing eye in fully.
Install a towing arm.
Switch on the hazard warning lamps on both vehicles.
Move off gently and drive slowly over a short distance only.
 
Towing a trailer
 
Towbar suitable for the attachment of a trailer or installation of a bicycle carrier, with additional lighting and signalling.
Your vehicle is primarily designed for transporting people and luggage, but it may also be used for towing a trailer.
=e
We recommend the use of genuine CITROEN towbars and their harnesses that have been tested and approved from the design stage of your vehicle, and that the fitting of the towbar is entrusted to a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
lf the towbar is not fitted by a CITROEN dealer, it is imperative that it is
fitted in accordance with the vehicle manufacturer's instructions.
Practical information
Driving with a trailer places greater demands on the towing vehicle and the driver must take particular care.
211
Practical information
Driving advice
Distribution of loads
* Distribute the load in the trailer so that the heaviest items are as close as possible to the axle and the nose weight approaches the maximum permitted without exceeding it.
Air density decreases with altitude, thus
reducing engine performance. Above
1 000 metres, the maximum towed load must
be reduced by 10 % for every 1 000 metres of
altitude.
Refer to the "Technical data" section for details of the weights and towed loads which apply to your vehicle.
Side wind
ze Take into account the increased sensitivity to side wind.
Cooling
Towing a trailer on a slope increases the temperature of the coolant. As the fan is electrically controlled, its cooling
capacity is not dependent on the engine speed.
* To lower the engine speed, reduce your speed.
The maximum towed load on a long incline
depends on the gradient and the ambient
temperature.
In all cases, keep a check on the coolant
temperature.
æ Ifthe warning lamp and the STOP warning lamp come on, stop the vehicle and switch off the engine as soon as possible.
E WPS
When not towing a trailer, remove the quickly-detachable tow ball before driving.
Braking
Towing a trailer increases the braking distance. To avoid overheating of the brakes on a long mountain type of descent, the use of engine braking is recommended.
Tyres
æ Check the tyre pressures of the towing vehicle and of the trailer, observing the recommended pressures.
Lighting ze Check the electrical lighting and signalling on the trailer.
3 The rear parking sensors will be deactivated automatically if a genuine CITROËN towbar is used.
 
Roof bars
į For safety reasons and to avoid
° damaging the roof, it is essential to use transverse roof bars that are approved for your vehicle.
Observe the fitting instructions and the conditions of use given in the information provided with the roof bars.
þm o
Practical information
Version without longitudinal bars
Version with longitudinal bars
NN ée
  
You must fit the transverse bars to the longitudinal bars at the fixing points indicated by engraved markings on the longitudinal bars.
To install the roof bars, you must secure them only to the four anchorage points in the roof frame. These points are masked by the vehicle's doors when closed.
The roof bar fixings include a stud that should be introduced into the aperture at each
anchorage point. 9
213
214
Practical information
Recommendations
* Distribute the load evenly, avoiding overloading on one side.
* Arrange the heaviest part of the load as close as possible to the roof.
ze Anchor the load securely and fit a warning flag if part of it overhangs the vehicle.
* Drive gently, as the vehicle will be more liable to the effects of side winds (vehicle stability may be affected).
ze Remove the roof bars as soon as they are no longer needed.
þm o
Maximum load, distributed over the roof bars, for a loading height not exceeding 40 cm: 80 kg.
This value is subject to change, please check the maximum load stated in the instructions provided with he roof bars. If the height exceeds 40 cm, adapt the speed of the vehicle to the profile of the road to avoid damaging the roof bars and the fixings on the vehicle.
Please refer to national legislation so as to meet the requirements on carrying objects that are longer than the vehicle.
 
Very cold climate screens
Removable protective screens which prevents the accumulation of snow at the radiator cooling fan.
=e
Before fitting or removing a screen, ensure that the engine is off and the
cooling fan has stopped.
It is recommended that the screens be fitted and removed by a CITROEN
dealer or a qualified workshop.
Fitting
e Offer up the corresponding screen to the front bumper upper grille.
ze Press on the edge to engage its fixing clips in turn.
Proceed in the same way for the screen on the
lower grille.
Practical information
Removal
e Using a screwdriver, lever in turn on the fixings of each screen to unclip them.
į} Do not forget to remove the very cold
climate screens when:
the ambient temperature exceeds 9
10°C, towing, at speeds above 75 mph (120 km/h).
215
216
Practical information
AIRBUMP® protectors
Made of TPU (Thermo Plastic Urethane) and enclosing bubbles of air, these protectors act as an impact absorber.
Located on the sides, front and rear of your vehicle, they protect the bodywork by reducing the effect of minor everyday knocks: parking dings, opening doors, scrapes, ...
In body colour, these protectors also enhance the appearance of your vehicle.
C aen > ©
AIRBUMP® protection areas
A. Side. B. Front. C. Rear.
 
Accessories
Practical information
A wide range of accessories and genuine parts is available from the CITROEN dealer network. These accessories and parts have been tested and approved for reliability and safety. They are all suitable for your vehicle and benefit from CITROEN's recommendation and warranty.
"Comfort"
Door deflectors, side sun blinds, insulated module, coat hanger fixed to head restraint, mobile reading lamp, front and rear parking sensors, portable ashtray, scented air freshener, blind for sunroof...
"Transport systems"
Boot carpet, boot liner, boot net, boot spacers, transverse roof bars, ski carrier, roof box,
towbar, towbar wiring harness, bicycle carrier...
If a towbar and wiring harness are fitted outside the CITROEN dealer network, the installation must be done strictly in line with the manufacturer's recommendations.
"Styling" "Protection"
Leather gear lever knob, aluminium foot rest, Mats*, seat covers, mud flaps, vehicle cover, alloy wheels, front spoiler, rear diffuser, exterior boot... expressive stickers...
"Security and safety”:
Anti-intrusion alarm, vehicle tracking system, first aid kit, fire extinguisher, warning triangle, high visibility vest, wheel security bolts, snow chains, non-slip covers, front foglamp kit, dog guard, pet seat belt, seat belt cutter/glass
hammer... 9g
* To avoid any risk of jamming the pedals: - ensure that mats are correctly positioned and secured, - never fit one mat on top of another.
217
218
Practical information
"Multimedia"
Bluetooth hands-free system, portable satellite navigation system, driving assistance systems, smartphone carrier, DVD player, CD player, 230 V socket, semi-integral satellite navigation system, rear multimedia carrier, navigation mapping updates, aftermarket digital radio...
By visiting a CITROEN dealer you can also obtain cleaning and maintenance products (interior and exterior) - including ecological products in the "TECHNATURE" range, products for topping up (Screenwash...), paint touch-up pens and aerosols for the exact colour of your vehicle, refills (sealant cartridge for the temporary puncture repair kit...), ...
ke
Installation of radio communication transmitters
Before installing any after-market radio communication transmitter, you can contact a CITROEN dealer for the specification of transmitters which can be fitted (frequency, maximum power, aerial position, specific installation requirements), in line with the Vehicle Electromagnetic Compatibility Directive (2004/104/EC).
e
Depending on the legislation in force in the country, certain safety equipment may be compulsory: high visibility safety vests, warning triangles, breathalyzers, spare bulbs, spare fuses, a fire extinguisher, a first aid kit, mud flaps at the rear of the vehicle.
The fitting of electrical equipment
or accessories which are not recommended by CITROEN may result in a failure of your vehicle's electronic system and excessive electrical consumption.
Please note this precaution. You
are advised to contact a CITROEN representative to be shown the range of recommended equipment and accessories.
 
Checks
TOTAL & CITROEN
Partners in performance and protecting the environment
Innovation in the search for performance
For over 40 year, the TOTAL Research and Development departments have developed for CITROEN, lubricants to match the latest technical innovations on CITROEN vehicles, both for competition and for everyday motoring.
For you, this is an assurance that you will obtain of the best performance for your engine.
Optimum protection for your engine | By having your CITROEN vehicle oe serviced with TOTAL lubricants, you are | + contributing towards improving the life and performances of your engine, while also protecting the environment.
 
t
    
 
CITROËN CITROEN prefers Torat TOTAL
219
Checks
Bonnet
Before doing anything under the bonnet, switch off the Stop & Start system to avoid any risk of injury resulting from an automatic change to START mode.
Opening e Open the left hand front door.
« Pull the release lever, located at the bottom of the door aperture, towards you.
220
e Lift the safety catch and raise the bonnet.
Do not open the bonnet under very windy conditions.
When the engine is hot, handle the exterior safety catch and the stay with care (risk of burns), using the protected area.
When the bonnet is open, take care not to damage the safety catch.
e:
 
Unclip the stay from its housing and place it in the support slot to hold the bonnet open.
Closing
LS"
Es
e:
Take the stay out of its support slot.
Clip the stay back into its housing.
Lower the bonnet and release it at the end of its travel.
Pull on the bonnet to check that it has latched correctly.
The cooling fan may start after switching off the engine: take care with articles and clothing that might become caught by the fan blades.
 
Petrol engines
ONOARWN os
Screenwash reservoir.
. Coolant header tank. . Brake fluid reservoir.
Battery.
Fusebox.
Air filter.
Engine oil dipstick. Engine oil filler cap.
Checks
 
221
Checks
Diesel engines
Screenwash wash reservoir. Coolant header tank.
Brake fluid reservoir. Battery.
Fusebox.
Air filter.
Engine oil dipstick.
Engine oil filler cap.
Priming pump.
CHONDA RYN 3
* According to engine.
222
 
 
 
Checking levels
Checks
Check all of these levels regularly, in line with the maintenance and warranty guide. Top them up if necessary, unless otherwise indicated. If a level drops significantly, have the corresponding system checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
) Take care when working under the bonnet, as certain areas of the engine may be extremely
Oil level
The check is carried out either when Dipstick the ignition is switched on using the oil level indicator in the instrument panel, or using the dipstick. It will only be correct if the vehicle is on level ground and the engine has been off for more than 30 minutes. Q
3 Itis normal to top up the oil level between two services (or oil changes). CITROËN recommends that you check the level, and top up if necessary, every 3 000 miles (5 000 kms).
©
After topping up the oil, the check when switching on the ignition with the oil level indicator in the instrument panel is not valid during the 30 minutes after
topping up.
[=e
hot (risk of burns) and the cooling fan could start at any time (even with the ignition off).
There are two marks on the dipstick:
A = maximum
If the level is above this mark, contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
B = minimum
Top up the level through the oil filler orifice, using the correct grade of oil for your engine. The level must never be below this mark.
Engine oil change
Refer to the maintenance and warranty guide for details of the interval for this operation.
In order to maintain the reliability of the engine and emission control system, the use of additives in the engine oil is prohibited.
Oil specification The oil must be the correct grade for your
engine and conform to the manufacturer's recommendations.
10
223
224
Checks
Brake fluid level
The brake fluid level should be close ©) to the "MAX" mark. If it is not, check the brake pad wear.
Changing the fluid
Refer to the maintenance and warranty guide for details of the interval for this operation.
Fluid specification
The brake fluid must conform to the manufacturer's recommendations.
Coolant level
The coolant level should be close to the "MAX" mark but should never exceed it.
 
When the engine is warm, the temperature of the coolant is regulated by the fan.
The cooling fan may start after switching off the engine: take care with articles and clothing that might become caught by the fan blades.
In addition, as the cooling system is pressurised, wait at least one hour after switching off the engine before carrying out any work.
To avoid any risk of scalding, unscrew the cap by two turns to allow the pressure to drop. When the pressure has dropped, remove the cap and top up the level.
Changing the coolant
The coolant does not have to be replaced at routine services.
Fluid specification
The coolant must conform to the manufacturer's recommendations.
Screenwash fluid level
Top up the level when necessary.
SERVICE
Fluid specification
For optimum cleaning and to avoid freezing, this fluid must not be topped up or replaced with plain water.
In wintry conditions, it is recommended that you use an ethyl alcohol or methanol based fluid.
Diesel fuel additive level (Diesel with particle emissions filter)
The additive reservoir low level is indicated by fixed illumination of this warning lamp, accompanied by an audible signal and a message that the particle emissions filter additive level is too low.
SERVICE
Topping up The reservoir must be topped up without delay by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
Checks
Used products
Avoid prolonged contact of used oil or fluids with the skin.
Most of these fluids are harmful to health or indeed very corrosive.
& Do not discard used oil or fluids into sewers or onto the ground. Take used oil to a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop (France) or to an authorised waste disposal site.
10
 
225
226
Checks
Checks
Unless otherwise indicated, check these components in accordance with the maintenance and warranty guide and according to your engine. Otherwise, have them checked by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
12 V battery
The battery does not require any maintenance. na However, check that the terminals are clean
 
and correctly tightened, particularly in summer and winter.
When carrying out work on the battery, refer to the "12 V battery" section for details of the precautions to be taken before disconnecting the battery and following its reconnection.
re ls ba hh ti hy
 
The presence of this label, in particular with the Stop & Start system, indicates the use of
a specific 12 V lead-acid battery with special technology and specification. The involvement of a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop is essential when replacing or disconnecting the battery.
 
 
Air filter and passenger compartment filter
E Refer to the maintenance and warranty guide for details of the
replacement intervals for these components.
Depending on the environment (e.g. dusty
atmosphere) and the use of the vehicle
(e.g. city driving), replace them twice as often
if necessary.
A clogged passenger compartment filter may
have an adverse effect on the performance
of the air conditioning system and generate
undesirable odours.
Oil filter
Replace the oil filter each time the engine oil is changed.
Refer to the maintenance and warranty guide for details of the replacement interval for this component.
Particle emissions filter (Diesel)
The start of saturation of the SERVICE particle filter is indicated by the fixed illumination of this warning lamp accompanied by a warning message.
i As soon as the traffic conditions permit, regenerate the filter by driving ata speed of at least 40 mph (60 km/h) until the warning lamp goes off.
If the warning lamp stays on, this indicates a low additive level.
On anew vehicle, the first particle filter regeneration operations may be accompanied by a "burning" smell, which is perfectly normal.
Following prolonged operation of the vehicle at very low speed or at idle, you may, in exceptional circumstances, notice the emission of water vapour at the exhaust on acceleration. This does not affect the behaviour of the vehicle or the environment.
 
Manual gearbox
The gearbox does not require any maintenance (no oil change). Refer to the maintenance and warranty guide for the details of the level checking interval for this component.
 
D
Electronic gearbox
The gearbox does not require any maintenance (no oil change).
Refer to the maintenance and warranty guide for details of the level checking interval for this component.
 
Brake pads
wd
Brake wear depends on the style
of driving, particularly in the case
of vehicles used in town, over short distances. It may be necessary to have the condition of the brakes checked, even between vehicle services.
Unless there is a leak in the circuit, a drop in the brake fluid level indicates that the brake pads are worn.
 
 
 
Brake disc wear
For information on checking brake disc wear, contact a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
Parking brake If excessive travel or a loss of
SS effectiveness of this system is noticed, the parking brake must be
checked, even between two services.
Checking this system must be done by a CITROEN dealer or a qualified workshop.
Checks
Only use products recommended by CITROEN or products of equivalent quality and specification.
In order to optimise the operation of units as important as those in the braking system, CITROEN selects and offers very specific products.
After washing the vehicle, dampness, or in wintry conditions, ice can form on the brake discs and pads: braking efficiency may be reduced. Make light brake applications to dry and defrost the brakes.
To avoid damaging the electrical units, the use of a high pressure washer
in the engine compartment is strictly prohibited.
10
 
227
Technical data
Engines and gearboxes - PETROL
Geahor Manual Manual Electronic Manual (5-speed) (5-speed) (5-speed) (5-speed) Model code OHMU OHMZ OHNZ
Emissions standard Euro 5 Euro 6 Cubic capacity (cc) 1199 1199 1199 Bore x stroke (mm) 75 x 90.5 75 x 90.5 75 x 90.5 Max power: EU standard (kW)* 55 60 81 Max power engine speed (rpm) 6 250 Max torque: EU standard (Nm) 116 118 205 Max torque engine speed (rpm) 2 750 2 750 1 750
Fuel Unleaded Unleaded Unleaded
Catalytic converter yes yes yes
Engine oil capacity with replacement of the oil
filter (in litres) ES E E
 
* The maximum power corresponds to the type approved value on a test bed, under conditions defined by European legislation (directive 1999/99/EC).
228
 
Technical data
Weights and towed loads (in kg) - PETROL
Manual Manual Electronic Manual (5-speed) (5-speed) (5-speed) (5-speed)
Model code OHMU OHMZ OHNZ
Unladen weight
Gearbox
Kerb weight* Gross vehicle weight (GVW)
Gross train weight (GTW) ona 12% gradient
Braked trailer (within GT W limit) on a 10 % or 12 % gradient
Unbraked trailer
Recommended nose weight (towbar)
 
* The kerb weight is equal to the unladen weight + driver (75 kg).
The GTW and towed load values indicated are valid up to a maximum altitude of 1 000 metres; the towed load mentioned must be reduced by 10 % for
each additional 1 000 metres of altitude.
The speed of a towing vehicle must not exceed 60 mph (100 km/h) (comply with the legislation in force in your country).
High ambient temperatures may result in a reduction in the performance of the vehicle to protect the engine; if the ambient temperature is above 37 °C, 1 J limit the towed load.
229
Technical data o
Engines and gearboxes - DIESEL
EE Electronic Manual (6-speed) (5-speed) Model code O9HP OBHY
Emissions standard Euro 5 Euro 6 Cubic capacity (cc) 1 560 1 560 Bore x stroke (mm) 75 X 88.3 75 x 88.3 Max power: EU standard (kW)* 68 70 Max power engine speed (rpm) 3 750 3 500 Max torque: EU standard (Nm) 230 254 Max torque engine speed (rpm) 1 750 1 750
Fuel Diesel Diesel
Catalytic converter yes yes
Particle emission filter yes yes
Engine oil capacity with replacement of the oil
filter (in litres) 3.75 3:75
 
* The maximum power corresponds to the value type approved on a test bed, under conditions defined by European legislation (Directive 1999/99/EC).
230
 
Weights and towed loads (in kg) - DIESEL
Electronic Manual (6-speed) (5-speed)
Model code O9HP OBHY
Unladen weight
Gearbox
Kerb weight* Gross vehicle weight (GVW)
Gross train weight (GTW) on a 12% gradient
Braked trailer (within GT W limit) ona 10% or 12% gradient
Unbraked trailer
 
Recommended nose weight (towbar)
* The kerb weight is equal to the unladen weight + driver (75 kg).
The GTW and towed load values indicated are valid up to a maximum altitude of 1 000 metres; the towed load mentioned must be reduced by 10 % for
each additional 1 000 metres of altitude.
The speed of a towing vehicle must not exceed 60 mph (100 km/h) (comply with the legislation in force in your country). l J High ambient temperatures may result in a reduction in the performance of the vehicle to protect the engine; if the ambient temperature is above 37 °C,
limit the towed load.
231
Technical data
Dimensions (in mm)
These dimensions have been measured on a vehicle that is not loaded.
1490 - 1540
 
| 1475 - 1480 |
1729
 
 
232
 
 
Identification markings
Various visible markings for the identification of your vehicle.
Di
A. Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) under the bonnet. This number is engraved on the chassis near the right hand front wheel arch.
B. Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) on the windscreen lower cross member. This number is indicated on a self- adhesive label which is visible through the windscreen.
a J
Manufacturer's label.
This self-destroying label on the middle
door pillar, right or left hand side, contains
the following information:
- the manufacturer's name,
- the European whole vehicle type approval number,
- the vehicle identification number (VIN),
- the maximum authorised weight (gross vehicle weight),
- the maximum authorised weight with trailer (gross train weight),
- the maximum front axle weight,
- the maximum rear axle weight.
e
Ge If the tyre pressures are too low, this
Technical data
Tyre/paint label.
This label on the middle door pillar, driver's
side, contains the following information.
- the tyre inflation pressures, laden and unladen,
- the tyre sizes (including the tyre load index and speed rating),
- the inflation pressure for the spare wheel,
- the paint colour code.
The tyre pressures must be checked when the tyres are cold, at least once a month.
1
233
increases fuel consumption.
 
 
EMERGENCY OR ASSISTANCE CALL
235
EMERGENCY OR ASSISTANCE CALL
 
CITROEN Localised Emergency Call
In an emergency, press this button for more than
2 seconds. Flashing of the green LED and a voice message confirm that the call has been made to the CITROEN Localised Emergency Call centre’.
SOS
 
Pressing this button again immediately cancels the call. The green LED goes off.
Pressing this button (at any time) for more than 8 seconds cancels the call.
The green LED remains on (without flashing) wnen communication is established. It goes off at the end of communication.
This call is dealt with by the CITROEN Localised Emergency Call centre which receives locating information from the vehicle and can send a detailed alert to the appropriate emergency services. In countries in which the team is not operational, or when the locating service has been expressly declined, the call is dealt with directly by the emergency services (112) without the vehicle location.
i If an impact is detected by the airbag control unit, and ! independently of the deployment of any airbags, an emergency call is made automatically.
If you benefit from the CITROEN eTouch offer, you also have available additional services in your MyCITROEN personal space, via the CITROEN Internet website in your country, accessible on www.citroen.com.
* These services are subject to conditions and availability. Consult a CITROEN dealer.
236
CITROEN Localised Assistance Call
IN Press this button for more than 2 seconds to request Le assistance If the vehicle breaks down.
A voice message confirms that the call has been made”.
Pressing this button again immediately cancels the request. The cancellation is confirmed by a voice message.
Operation of the system
AEN When the ignition is switched on, the green ÍN 10A] f LED comes on for 3 seconds indicating that the system is operating correctly.
If the orange LED flashes: there is a
system fault. Ëch eke) Ü |i the orange LED is on continuously: the EN backup battery must be replaced.
In either case, contact a CITROEN
dealer.
If you purchased your vehicle outside the CITROEN dealer network, we invite you to have a dealer check the configuration of these services and, if desired, modified to suit your wishes. In a multi-lingual country, configuration is possible in the official national language of your choice.
For technical reasons, particularly to improve the quality of Telematic services to customers, the manufacturer reserves the right to carry out updates to the vehicle's on-board telematic system.
The system is protected in such a way that it will only operate in your vehicle.
For safety reasons, the driver must carry out operations which require prolonged attention while the vehicle is stationary.
When the engine is switched off and to prevent discharging of the battery, the system switches off following the activation of the energy economy mode.
Touch screen tablet SATELLITE NAVIGATION SYSTEM MULTIMEDIA AUDIO SYSTEM
BLUETOOTH TELEPHONE
CONTENTS
01 General operation
02 First steps - Control panel 03 Steering mounted controls 04 Media
05 Navigation
06 Configuration
07 Connected services
08 Telephone
Frequently asked questions
anno nn pp GS
 
238 240 241 242 260 280 290 292 302
23/
01 GENERAL OPERATION
 
"Configuration"
“Air conditioning" allows sound settings allows control of the and the brightness of settings for temperature instruments and controls and air flow. to be adjusted and gives / | access to the interactive help for the main vehicle systems and warning lamps.
 
 
 
"Driving assistance"
allows access to the trip computer and certain vehicle functions to be activated, deactivated and adjusted.
"Connected services"”
allows connection to
an applications portal
to facilitate, make
safe and personalise journeys by means of a connection key available on subscription from a CITROEN dealer.
 
 
 
 
"Media"
allows selection of a radio station, the various music sources and the
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
display of photographs. \ "Telephone" ‘allows the connection of ~ "Navigation" a mobile telephone via === allows settings for Bluetooth. navigation and the choice
“<= of a destination. TEE
 
 
 
 
* Depending on equipment.
 
01 GENERAL OPERATION
 
       
Use the buttons on either side of the touch screen tablet for access to the menus, then press the virtual buttons in the touch screen tablet.
Each menu is displayed in one or two pages (primary page and secondary page).
Primary page Secondary page
   
In very hot conditions, the system may go into stand-by (screen and sound completely off) for a minimum period of 5 minutes.
239
02 FIRST STEPS
With the engine running, press to mute
the sound.
With the ignition off, press to switch the
system on.
Volume adjustment (each source is independent, including Traffic
announcements (TA) and navigation
instructions).
x
@ E $ zen
Short-cuts: using the touch buttons in the upper band of the touch screen tablet, it is possible to go directly to the selection of audio source, the list of stations (or titles, depending on the source) or to the temperature setting.
= Following prolonged operation in sunny conditions, the volume may be limited to protect the system. The return to normal takes place when the temperature in the passenger compartment drops.
 
Selecting the audio source (depending on version):
- "FM"/"AM"/"DAB™ stations.
- "USB" memory stick.
- CD player (located under the right hand front seat)**.
- Jukebox’, after first copying audio files to the internal memory of the touch screen tablet. - Telephone connected by Bluetooth* and audio streaming Bluetooth” (streaming).
- Media player connected to the auxiliary socket (jack, cable not supplied).
The screen is of the "resistive" type, it is necessary to press firmly, particularly for "flick" gestures (scrolling through a list, moving the map...). A simple wipe will not be enough. pressing with more than one finger is not recognised.
The screen can be used when wearing gloves. This technology allows use at all temperatures.
i To clean the screen, use a soft non-abrasive cloth (spectacles cloth) without any additional product. Do not use pointed objects on the screen. Do not touch the screen with wet hands.
* Depending on equipment.
** The CD player is available as an accessory from CITROEN dealers.
240
03 STEERING MOUNTED CONTROLS
 
SRC
  
LIST
Short press: Change the multimedia source. Accept an incoming call.
Call in progress: access to the telephone menu (End call, Secret mode, Hands-free mode).
Long press: Reject an incoming call. End a call in progress.
Other than call in progress: access to the telephone menu (Dial, Contacts, Call log, Answerphone).
Rotation.
Radio: automatic search for previous / next station.
Media: previous / next track. Press: confirmation.
Short press: Radio: display the list of stations. Media: display the list of tracks.
Long press: update the list of stations received.
Increase volume. Decrease volume.
241
242
04 MEDIA
Level 1 al "Media" Primary page di o> di < Cc
<
@ a $ | = Preset
Level 2
List of FM stations
Level 3
0 g
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Comments
Media w List of FM stations Press on a radio station to select it. List © FM Radio ©. DAB Radio © AM Radio Œ; Jukebox Media @ cD Select change of source Source «> USB iPod $ Bluetooth ~> AUX Media === Pres an empty location to Preset it. Preset
243
04 MEDIA
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 oly "Media" x List of FM stations A Autorout > | Secondary page i x V S v z x Photos Media A [H1 AUBRAC.JPG
 
244
ei
op a
E
Level 1 Media Secondary page
Radio list
Media Secondary page
Photos
Media Secondary page
Manage Jukebox
Level 2 Level 3
Preset Update list Frequency Confirm
Page selection
Rotate Select all €@ Previous photo. Slideshow 11 œ Pause / Play. = Next photo. Confirm Sort by folder
Sort by album Select all
ei Create folder
Rename Magnifying glass U Delete mck | Select all v Confirm
Copy
Comments
Press a radio station to select it. Update the list of stations received. Enter the desired radio frequency. Save the settings.
Display the selected photo full screen. Rotate the photo 90°.
Select all the photos in the list. Press again to deselect.
Display the photos in sequence, full screen.
Save the settings.
Choose the selection mode.
Choose the handling mode.
Save the options. Save the settings 245
04 MEDIA
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Ol) "Media" > | Secondary page x Media oN O [ss] AI x Radio settings <] © © JJ ku © © G G 00 x Media options GE Ee © © px vV ú») © d Ka © © Es © L CO © © < = x Radio settings W © © v EE @ Q © © | © © © © vV ci @ v.l
246
al
©
Level 1
Media Secondary page
Media list
Media Secondary page
Media options
CG
Wl
Level 2
Media
Media options
Radio
Radio settings
Announcements
Radio settings
Confirm
CO
Level 3
Random (all tracks):
Random (current album):
Loop:
Aux. amplification RDS options DAB/FM options
Display Radio Text DAB radio thumbnails
Traffic announcements (TA) Weather Varied - Sport
Alert settings
Comments
Presentation of the last media used.
Choose the play settings.
Activate or deactivate the options.
Activate or deactivate the options.
Save the settings.
247
ja
2a
Ja
248
04 RADIO
Selecting a station
Press on Media to display the primary page. or
Press on Media to display the primary page then go to the secondary page.
Select "List" in the primary page. or Select "Radio list" in the secondary page.
Select a radio station from the list offered.
Select "Update list" to refresh the list.
ib Press Media to display the primary ol} > | page then select "Preset". OR 2b v O Select a preset radio station in the list. A| Q AUTOROUT 1 If necessary, select change of source. V 2 () Select "FM Radio" or "AM Radio".
EE
op
| | Memoire 1
Radio FM Radio AM
The exterior environment (hills, buildings, tunnel, car park, below ground...) may prevent reception, even in RDS station tracking mode. This phenomenon is normal in the propagation of radio waves and Is in no way indicative of a fault with the audio system.
04 RADIO
Changing a radio frequency
ib i l ! Press on Media to display the primary ol} ae neon ary page. page. FM OR 2b By automatic frequency search | <j 107.7MHz [> | Press on "Enter frequency" to display Press 4 or » to move the cursor the primary page then press on the for an automatic search down or up secondary page Radio AM Radio FM for a radio frequency. p BES l THEN 3c Enter the frequency in full (e.g.: 92.10 MHz) v Select change source. oly > | using the keypad then "Confirm". OR 3d
By alphabetical list
Select "FM Radio" or "AM Radio". a Press the current radio band then [| FRANCE BLEU
choose the radio station from the list offered.
249
250
04 RADIO
Preset a station
Select a radio station or frequency (refer to the corresponding section).
Press on "Preset".
Select a number in the list to preset the previously chosen radio station.
A long press on a number presets (memorises) the station.
Or
Apress on this button presets all of the stations one after the other.
Recall pre-set stations
Press on Media to display the primary page then select "Save".
=
el
EE
04 RADIO
Activate/ Deactivate RDS
Press on Media to display the primary page N then go to the secondary page. o > |
Select "Settings". t3
Select "Radio". ©)
Activate/deactivate "RDS options". Off C—O On
RDS, if activated, allows you to continue listening to the same station by automatic retuning to alternative frequencies. However, in certain conditions, coverage of an RDS station may not be assured throughout the entire country as radio stations do not cover 100 % of the territory. This explains the loss of reception of the station during a journey.
251
252
04 RADIO
Any thumbnail broadcast by
the station.
Manage the Jukebox. Display current action.
Secondary page.
Previous "Multiplex". Previous radio station.
Display the name and number of the multiplex service being used.
Short-cut: access to some of the
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Display of the settings for the air conditioning, name of the current radio and changing the audio Select the radio station. a Source. = station.
\ /
/
“79.5 AUTO A/c a. 2:15 Select the audio source. ' Display the "DAB" band.
      
Source $
SEN On nue. Display of "Radiotext" for the current station.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
i Next "Multiplex". t] Next radio station.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
to 15
Short press: select the preset radio station.
Long press: preset a radio
Preset stations, buttons 1 |
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
| station. e Display of options: If the "DAB" radio station being if active but not available, the display i listened to is not available on will be greyed out, "FM", the "DAB FM" option is if active and available, the display will greyed out.
be blank.
04 RADIO
DAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting)
Digital radio
Digital radio provides higher quality reception and also the
graphical display of current information on the radio station being
listened to. Select "List" in the primary page.
The range of multiplexes available is displayed in alphabetical
order.
Press on Media to display the primary page.
Select change of source.
Select "DAB Radio".
Select "List" in the primary page. or Select "Radio list" in the secondary page.
Select the radio station from the list offered.
op
FM
Radio DAB
v
A| d AUTOROUT
V
Digital radio - DAB / FM auto tracking
"DAB" does not cover 100% of the territory.
When the digital radio signal is weak, "DAB / FM auto tracking" allows you to continue listening to the same station, by automatically switching to the corresponding "FM" analogue station (if there is one).
Press Media to display the primary page then N press on the secondary page. Ol d
ku Select "Settings". CG) Select "RADIO". ©) Select "Digital/FM auto tracking" then Off C—O On
"Confirm".
If "DAB / FM auto tracking" is activated, there is a difference of a few seconds when the system switches to "FM" analogue radio with sometimes a variation in volume.
When the digital signal is restored, the system automatically changes back to "DAB".
If the "DAB" station being listened to is not available on "FM" ("DAB/ FM" option greyed out), or "DAB / FM auto tracking" is not activated, the sound will cut out while the digital signal is too weak.
253
254
04 MUSIC CD, MP3 CD, USB player, auxiliary input
The CD player is available as an accessory from CITROEN dealers. Insert the CD in the player, insert the USB memory stick in the USB player or connect the WW" USB peripheral to the USB port using a suitable t cable (not supplied)
The system builds playlists (in temporary memory), an operation which can take from a few seconds to several minutes at the first connection.
Reduce the number of non-music files and the number of folders to reduce the waiting time.
The playlists are updated every time the ignition is switched off or connection of a USB memory stick. However, the system memorises these lists and if they are not modified, the loading time will be shorter.
 
Selection of source
Press on Media to display the primary page. ol} Select change of source then choose the source. x FM @ = x =o
The steering mounted SRC (source) button can be used to go to the next media source, available if the source is active.
Press OK to confirm the selection. d "CD /CD MP3" Y A "Radio" SRC "USB, iPod" R d
"Auxiliary" "Bluetooth (streaming)"
04 MUSIC
CD, MP3 CD / USB player
Information and advice
The audio equipment will only play audio files with ".wma, .aac, flac, .ogg and .mp3" file extensions and with a bit rate of between 32 Kbps and 320 Kbps.
It also supports VBR (Variable Bit Rate) mode.
No other type of file (.mp4, ...) can be played.
WMA files must be of the standard wma 9 type.
The sampling rates supported are 11, 22, 44 and 48 KHz.
It is advisable to restrict file names to 20 characters, without using of special characters (e.g.:"" ? ; u) to avoid any playing and displaying problems.
In order to be able to play a recorded CDR or CDRW, when recording it is preferable to select the ISO 9660 level 1, 2 or Joliet standard.
If the disc is recorded in another format it may not be played correctly.
It is recommended that the same recording standard is always used for an individual disc, with as low a speed as possible (4x maximum) for optimum sound quality.
In the particular case of a multi-session CD, the Joliet standard is recommended.
The system supports USB mass storage devices, BlackBerry® devices or Apple® players via USB ports. The adaptor cable not supplied.
Control of the peripheral device is with the audio system controls.
Other peripherals, not recognised on connection, must be connected to the auxiliary socket using a Jack cable (not supplied).
In order to be read, a USB memory stick must be formatted FAT 16 or 32.
The system does not support two identical devices connected at the same time (two memory sticks, two Apple® players) but it is possible to connect one memory stick and one Apple® player at the same time.
It is recommended that official Apple® USB cables are used to ensure correct operation.
255
04 MUSIC
Selecting a track to play
Previous track.
Next track.
Previous folder.
Next folder.
Pause.
256
<B} >B?
U
List of USB or CD tracks and folders. LIST
Up or down in the list. = AT
Confirm, next menu level. =
Up one menu level. | a]
04 MUSIC
Connecting APPLE® players
Connect the Apple® player to one of the USB ports using a suitable cable (not supplied). =
Play starts automatically.
Control is via the audio system.
The classifications available are those of the portable device connected (artists / aloums / genres / playlists / audiobooks / podcasts).
The default classification used is by artist. To modify the classification used, return to the first level of the menu then select the desired classification (playlists for example) and confirm to go down through the menu to the desired track.
Copies of photos and album artwork are not compatible with the audio system. These appear only with a USB memory stick.
The version of software in the audio system may not be compatible with the generation of your Apple® player.
Audio streaming
Streaming allows audio files on your telephone to be played via the vehicle's speakers.
Connect the telephone: see the "Telephone" section, then "Bluetooth".
Choose the "Audio" or "All" profile.
If play does not start automatically, it may be necessary to start the audio playback from the telephone.
Control is from the peripheral device or by using the audio system buttons.
Once connected in streaming mode, the telephone is considered to be a media source.
It is recommended that you activate "Repeat" on the Bluetooth peripheral.
25/
258
04 MUSIC
Using the auxiliary input (AUX) (cable not supplied)
Connect the portable device (MP3 player...) to the auxiliary JACK : socket using an audio cable. Select Media to display the primary page. ol} 3 Qa. Select change the source. ~~ FM 4 AUX a Select the AUXILIARY source. GE
First adjust the volume of your portable device (to a high level). Then adjust the volume of your audio system.
Display and management of the controls are via the portable device.
04 MUSIC
Managing the Jukebox
Connect the device (MP3 player...) to the USB port or auxiliary socket using a suitable audio cable.
When no audio file is copied to the system with a capacity of 8GB,
all of the Jukebox function symbols are greyed and are not available.
Select "Media list". BP il YY " " y Id
Select copy "Copy Jukebox".
Select "Sort by folder" or "Sort by album". aD
Select the magnifying glass to enter the folder or album and select audio file by audio file.
Select "Confirm" then "Copy".
Select "New folder" to create a folder structure in the Jukebox or select "Keep structure" to retain the structure from the device.
While copying the system returns to the primary page; you can go back to the copy view at any time by selecting this button.
A es
259
05 NAVIGATION
 
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
e Navigation z Route settings " Beate ni EE Gi Navigation 5 Primary page E >
P 4 ean Evie W
 
260
A d x
D
A d dë
Level 1
Navigation
Settings Navigation
Navigation
E
A €E. v
Level 2
Enter destination
© © © © Calculatory criteria m D CO H v Save Stop navigation Voice Diversion >
Level 3
Fastest
Shortest Time/distance Ecological
Tolls
Ferries
Strict - Close
Show route on map
Confirm
Comments
Display recent destinations
Choose the navigation criteria.
The map displays the route chosen according to these criteria.
Display the map and start navigation.
Save the options.
Save the current address.
Delete the navigation information.
Choose the volume for voice and announcement of street names.
Detour from your initial route by a certain distance. Display in text mode Zoom in.
Zoom out.
Display in full screen mode. Use the arrows to move the map.
Switch to 2D map. 261
05 NAVIGATION
 
Level 1 Level 2 <)> "Navigation" x Enter destination x = A Les trois moutiers > | Secondary page i V S R @ ër a P x A Navigation x Search for a point of interest O EN A h T Zei i V HA bk EO; D = v eS 2.
L
x Point of interest displayed on the map A i v V = v SE U e
262
 
Level 3
Address
For managing contacts and their addresses, refer to the "Communications" section.
(b) be à BD ei Contacts
To use the telephone functions, refer to the "Communications" @. section.
ab
q,
o
e GE e
x Search for a POI by name
(iP)
EN
Level 1
Navigation Secondary page
Enter destination
Navigation Secondary page
Search for a point of interest Navigation Secondary page
Display point of interest
=
7B
EEEE K
x v T o
Level 2
Address
Contacts
From map Itinerary Stop Navigate to All POls Garage Dining/hotels Personal By name Search Select all Delete Import POIs
Confirm
Gi fr Wë Eh së e
£
S- ©
Level 3
Curr. location Points of Interest Town centre
Save
Add waypoint Navigate to Addresses
Add contact
Add waypoint Search for contact
Navigate to
Comments
Address settings Save the current address.
Add a waypoint to the route.
Press to calculate the route.
Select a contact then calculate the route.
Display the map and zoom to view the roads. Create, add or delete a waypoint or view the itinerary. Delete navigation information.
Press to calculate the route.
List of categories available. After choosing the category, select the points of interest.
Save the settings.
Choose the display settings for POIs.
Save the options.
263
05
NAVIGATION
 
Level 1
A
«KX "Navigation"
v
> | Secondary page
Navigation P jé SZ Jl pP E og e
D
DX)
264
EE
© © OG
WM ©OOOX
<
Level 2
Traffic messages
E
Settings
G
A
 
BS
x Iq Iq
< NNW
Level 3 Diversion
Map settings
| © | & Settings | R OA &
Settings g © ©
Moving between the
two menus. co
FX dl AA
E
d
d
Level 1
Navigation Secondary page
Traffic messages
Navigation Secondary page
Map settings
Navigation Secondary page
Settings
P e Ags
<
Level 2 Level 3
On the route Around vehicle
Near destination
© Detour over a distance
Detour
© Recalculate route Finish
© Flat view north heading Orientation © Flat view vehicle heading
© Perspective view Maps
© "Day" map colour Aspect © "Night" map colour
© Automatic day/night Confirm
Route settings Voice Alert! Traffic options
Confirm
Comments
Settings for the choice of messages and the filter radius.
Save the options.
Choose the display and orientation of the map.
Save the settings.
Enter settings and choose the volume for the voice and announcement of street names.
Save the options.
265
05 NAVIGATION - GUIDANCE
Choosing a new destination
 
Towards a new destination
1 e 5 Press on Navigation to display the primary Select "Navigate to”. CN page then go to the secondary page. D Gi S > | vy E 6 D . D . d Choose the navigation criteria: "Fastest" or ©) 7 ge "Shortest" or "Time/distance" or "Ecological". Select "Enter destination". Choose the restriction criteria: "Include 3 tollroads", "Include ferries", "Traffic", "Strict", [Ww = "Close". Select "Address". e 8 Select "Confirm" or press "Show route on Y map" to start navigation guidance. N
d Select the "Country:" from the list offered then Tv |FRANCE._ J in the same way: [v|PaRis sd |v |Bivd Hossein Tl
We all i " all A ee the "Road:", the i ë P delete navigation information, press on (ey D "Settings" then "Stop navigation". O w Select "Save" to save the address entered as a e contact entry. B To restore the navigation information press on 0; «(x)» The system allows up to 200 entries. "Settings" then "Resume navigation". Zei
266
05 NAVIGATION - GUIDANCE
 
Towards a recent destination
Press on Navigation to display the primary page then go to the secondary page.
Select "Enter destination".
Select an address from the list offered.
Select "Navigate to”.
Select the criteria then "Confirm" or press "Show route on map" to start guidance.
 
Towards a contact
Navigation towards a contact imported from a telephone is only possible if the address entered is compatible with the system.
A
Press on Navigation to display the primary S Gi T > | page then go to the secondary page.
v
Select "Enter destination". C
Select "Contacts".
 
A| CASIMON Claudine
Select a destination from the contacts in the list offered.
Select "Navigate to".
Select the criteria then "Confirm" to start | x vV
guidance.
267
05 NAVIGATION - GUIDANCE
 
268
Towards GPS coordinates Press on Navigation to display the primary
page then go to the secondary page.
Select "Enter destination".
Select "Address".
Enter the "Longitude:" then the "Latitude:".
Select "Navigate to".
Select the criteria then "Confirm" or press "Show route on map" to start guidance.
FE
EN v
Towards a point on the map
Press on Navigation to display the primary K > | page then go to the secondary page.
Select "Enter destination". =
Select "From map". aH
Zoom in on the map then select the point.
 
A long press displays the surrounding tourist attractions.
05 NAVIGATION - GUIDANCE
 
Points of Interest (POI) show all of the locations of services nearby (hotels,
Towards points of interest (POI) retail outlet, airports, ...)
 
1 e ő A | EE 1km, Shell, 1 Place de Press on Navigation to display the primary Gi > | g , , page then go to the secondary page. ` > > Select a point of interest from the list offered. y V , A À P Select "Search for a point of interest’. l bet SS ER See: x
bh " An annuel mapping update allows new points of interest to be
Select "All POIs" or "Garage" or "Dining/ presented to you. | hotels" or "Personal" or "By name". You can also update the Risk areas / Danger areas every month. Ww CH The detailed procedure is available on:
http://citroen.navigation.com.
 
Select a category from the list offered.
Select "Search". Y
269
05 NAVIGATION - GUIDANCE
Towards points of interest (POI)
1 a Press on Navigation to display the primary £ Gi a > | page then go to the secondary page.
y
2 Select "Show POIs". bh
3 Select a category from the list offered then "Confirm". Iw Vv
2/0
05 NAVIGATION - GUIDANCE
 
Risk area / Danger zone alert settings
Press on Navigation to display the primary S Gi a > | page then go to the secondary page.
Select "Settings". BO;
Select "Alert config." AN
It is then possible to activate Risk Areas alerts then:
- "Audible warning"
- "Alert only when navigating"
- "Alert only for overspeed"
- "Display speed limits"
- Timing: the choice of timing allows the time before giving a Risk Area alert to be defined.
Select "Confirm".
These functions are only available if Risk Areas have been downloaded and installed on the system.
Lé
271
05 NAVIGATION - GUIDANCE
 
Adding a waypoint Organising waypoints
1 a , à 4 Press on Navigation to display the primary S Gi 3 > | To organise waypoints, carry out the previous operations 1 to page then go to the secondary page. 3 again (Adding a waypoint).
  
A | F PARIS, Avenue
         
Select "Enter destination’. i TA waypoint that you want to move in meters we A Select "Itinerary". e Ga Select "Up". 4 Select "Add waypoint" then "Address". Ce 6b
Select "Down".
5 a address of the Ee is entered in = = the same way as a destination, so enter [FRANCE ec the "City:" or post code, the "Road:" and [v[PaRis I FY
ages»
i Select "Delete". the "N°:". Confirm each time. ae © Then select "Add waypoint". ő Select "Navigate to". e i i m Select the criteria then "Confirm" to start CN Select "Road map" to view the changes made Le guidance and give the general direction of the to the route.
navigation route.
2/2
05 NAVIGATION - GUIDANCE
 
Route options
Calculation criteria
Press Navigation to display the primary page then go to the secondary page.
Select "Settings".
Select "Criteria".
It is then possible to choose:
the navigation criteria: "Fastest", "Shortest", "Time/distance", "Ecological".
- the exclusion criteria: "Include tollroads", "Include ferries", "Traffic", "Strict", "Close".
Select "Confirm". VY
The ecological calculation is based on mapping data but this may not always be correct.
2/3
274
05 TRAFFIC
Traffic information
Display of messages
Press on Navigation to display the primary page then go to the secondary page.
Select "Traffic messages".
Set the "On the route", "Around", "Near destination" filters to fine-tune the list.
Press again to remove the filter.
Select the message from the list offered.
Select the magnifying glasses to have the information spoken.
 
(=
TMC (Traffic Message Channel) messages contain information on traffic and weather conditions, received in real time and transmitted to the driver in the form of symbols on the navigation map.
Setting filters
Press on Navigation to display the primary page then go to the secondary page.
Select "Settings".
Select "Info option".
Select:
- "Warn of new messages", - "Speak messages",
Then enter the filter radius.
Select "Confirm".
We recommend a filter radius of: - 12 miles (20 km) in urban areas, - 30 miles (50 km) on motorways.
05 TRAFFIC
Main traffic symbols
1 Red and yellow triangle: traffic information, for example:
AY Modified signs A Narrow carriageway A Slippery surface A Accident
A Delay A Roadworks
A Risk of explosion A Road closed
Black and blue triangle: general information, for example:
A Weather reports A Traffic reports An A‘ A Parking A Snow / ice
Receiving TA messages
Press on Navigation to display the primary page then go to the secondary page.
Select "Settings".
Select "Voice".
Activate / Deactivate "Traffic (TA)".
A
<)> > |
v
>Il
GC
Wl
off CZO On
The TA (Traffic Announcement) function gives priority to TA alert messages. To operate, this function needs good reception of a radio station transmitting this type of message. When a traffic report is transmitted, the current audio source (Radio, CD, USB, ...) is interrupted automatically to play the TA message. Normal playback of the audio source resumes at the end of the transmission of the
message.
2/5
05 TRAFFIC
Diverting from a route
1 Press on Navigation to display the primary page then go to the secondary page. 2 Select "Traffic messages". 3 Select "Diversion". A
Select the diversion distance by pressing + or -.
2/6
6 EX
e Se\»
Select "Recalculate route". The route will be modified in time and distance. f +183 km © +00:20
Select "Confirm". Y
The route may be diverted following the reception of a traffic information message.
Map settings
Map orientation
A A Press on Navigation to display the primary p Gi s > | Select: page then go to the secondary page. - "Flat view north heading" to keep the map always North up, - "Flat view vehicle heading" to have the ©) map follow the direction of travel, Select "Map settings’. HA a
! , NAT ; PONO Select "Orientation". Select "Confirm" to save the modifications. VY
21/1
Configure
1 gı Select: - "'Day" map colour" to have the map always in day mode. - ""Night" map colour" to have the map v always in night mode. © - "Automatic day/night" to have the brightness of the map adjusted automatically according to the ambient light
Press on Navigation to display the primary S Gi > | page then go to the secondary page.
2 level. This mode makes use of the vehicle's Select "Map settings". HA sunshine sensor or by manual operation of the vehicle's lighting. 5 Then "Confirm" to save the modifications. Y 3 Select "Aspect". Cc e
Street names are visible on the map from the 100 m scale.
2/8
05 SETTINGS
Navigation speech synthesis
Volume / Street names
4 Press on Navigation to display the primary ` page then go to the secondary page. <)> > | vy Select "Voice synthesis" and/or "Male voice" and/or "Female voice" and/or "Speak road names". w Select "Settings". BO; 5 Select "Voice". v.l Select "Confirm" to save the modifications. Y
2/9
06 CONFIGURATION
 
280
 
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 © "Configuration" a Audio settings : © < See - - Primary page 5 x Audio settings © < ET © A © © e S < > v = |A | d | Al Q © = v SS Se de | Hp] A) x Audio settings C] a d CG m E = oy} + VS fe | EB | Op] x e A x e A = 5 2 Dd PP © ol Risen e
GL
Level 1
Configuration Audio settings
Audio settings
Configuration
Turn off screen
Configuration
Interactive help
Configuration
Brightness adjustment
 
Level 2 Level 3 Ambience
Balance Sound effects Ringtones Voice
Confirm
Back
Driving assistance - Equipment
Warning lamps
Audio communication GPS Navigation Previous page
Next page
Comments Choose the sound ambience.
Set the position of the sound in the vehicle using the Arkamys system.
Set the volume or activate the link to vehicle speed. Set the telephone ringtone and volume. Set the volume and voice for speaking street names
Save the settings.
Turn off the display in the touch screen (black screen). Apress on the black screen restores the display.
Consult the Interactive help.
Set the brightness of instruments and controls.
281
06 CONFIGURATION
Level 1 Gei W = = W Gef "Configuration
> | Secondary page
|
= LO EB d
   
282
x
© ©
x
Wa
Level 2
Units
Time/Date
© © © ©
Display screen
x
Factory settings
Ei
Level 1
Configuration Secondary page
System Settings
Configuration Secondary page
Time/Date
Configuration Secondary page
Screen settings
a)
v
IN
Level 2
Units
Erase data
Factory settings
Confirm
Confirm
Automatic text scrolling
Deactivate animations
Confirm
Comments
Set the units used to display distance, fuel consumption and temperature.
Select the desired data in the list then press Delete.
Return to factory settings.
Save the settings.
Set the date and time then confirm.
Make the setting then confirm.
283
284
06 CONFIGURATION
Level 1 Level 2
er "Configuration"
   
x Choice of language A > | Secondary page i V < v Configuration x Calculator © fo @& = O = CBE) 1 2 3 ne cT e $ S 2 E = = EE 0 x Calendar & =
Di
 
Level 1 Level 2
Configuration Secondary page v Confirm
Languages
Configuration Secondary page
Calculator
Configuration Secondary page
Calendar
Comments
Select the language then confirm.
Select the calculator.
Select the calendar.
285
06 CONFIGURATION
 
286
Audio settings
Press on Configuration to display the primary
ey
page. Select "Audio settings". K
——
Ela ana
Select "Ambience" or "Balance" or "Sound effects" or "Ringtones" or "Voice".
Ce Fp K
The distribution (or spatialisation using the Arkamys® system) of sound is an audio process that allows the audio quality to be adapted to the number of listeners in the vehicle.
Available only with the 6-speaker configuration.
The audio settings (Ambience, Bass, Treble and Loudness) are different and independent for each sound source.
The settings for distribution and balance are common to all sources.
- "Ambience" (choice of 6 musical ambiences)
- "Bass"
- "Treble"
- "Loudness" (Activate/Deactivate)
- "Balance", "Driver", "All passengers", "Front only"
- "Audio setting on touch screen"
- "Volume linked to vehicle speed:" (Activate/Deactivate)
On-board audio: Arkamys® Sound Staging.
With Sound Staging, the driver and passengers are immersed in an "audio scene" recreating the natural atmosphere of an auditorium: truly a part of the scene and its surroundings.
This new sensation is made possible by software in the audio system which processes the digital signals from the media players (radio, CD, MP3...) without changing the audio settings. This processing takes account of the characteristics of the passenger compartment to produce optimum results.
The Arkamys® software installed in your audio system processes
the digital signal from the media players (radio, CD, MP3, ...) and recreates a natural musical scene, with harmonious placement of instruments and voices in the space in front of passengers, level with the windscreen.
06 CONFIGURATION
Interactive help
Press on Configuration to display the primary
a page. 3
Select "Interactive help". aA
The interactive version of your handbook available in this touch screen is not intended as a substitute for the more complete content of the printed document.
For safety reasons, consultation of your handbook is only possible with the vehicle stationary.
 
287
 
288
06 CONFIGURATION
System
Modify system settings
Press on Configuration to display the primary page then go to the secondary page.
Select "System Settings”.
Select "Units" to change the units of distance, fuel consumption and temperature.
Select "Delete data" to delete the list of recent destinations, personal points of interest, contacts in the list.
Choose the item then select "Delete".
Select "Factory settings" to return to the original settings.
Press on Configuration to display the primary page then go to the secondary page.
Select "Screen settings".
Activate or deactivate "Activate automatic text scrolling" and "Activate animations".
 
06 CONFIGURATION
 
Press on Configuration to display the primary page then go to the secondary page.
Select:
- "Time/Date" to change the time zone, synchronisation with GPS, time and its format and then the date.
- "Languages" to change the language. - "Calculator" to display a calculator - "Calendar" to display a calculator.
 
289
07 CONNECTED SERVICES
 
Level 1 Level 2
Lt "Connected services" x Identification
      
Primary page: Secondary page: Driving assistance Internet navigation via y applications, see following Bluetooth telephone Dial-Up | page on "CITROEN Networking (DUN).
MULTICITY CONNECT™. A e s I © O
d d x DUN connection settings It may be that certain new
S generation smartphones E = are not compatible with this > <== a Bei fe Si standard. ve e = x Transfer rate v
* Depending on country. 290
07 CITROEN MULTICITY CONNECT
l "CITROËN MULTICITY CONNECT" is a service providing driving aid applications in real time, that gives access to useful information such as the state of the traffic, danger zones, fuel prices, the availability of parking places, tourist sites, weather conditions, correct addresses... It includes access to the mobile network associated with the use of these applications. "CITROEN MULTICITY CONNECT" is a service available under subscription contract from CITROEN dealers, depending on country and the type of touch screen, both before and after delivery of a new vehicle.
 
Plug the "CITROËN MULTICITY CONNECT" connection key into
T one of the USB ports. 3 x aw hese applications use vehicle ce i P f¥ data such as the current speed, d e000 mileage, remaining fuel range a S > or even GPS position to provide SÉ aX QO pertinent information.
 
l For safety reasons, some functions can only be used when ` stationary. «= For the best reception, it is recommended to connect the "CITROEN l = MULTICITY CONNECT" key to the USB port located in the glove i f box (available according to equipment). S The "MyCITROEN" application " nell ati is a link between the user, the 3 Press the "Connected services" menu to display the applications. x manufacturer Gelee network. Le zl S e f It allows the customer to know d = everything about their vehicle: A. servicing plan, accessory range, El Jin A service contracts taken out, ... mee ~ It also makes possible the sending of the vehicle's mileage to the "MyCITROEN" site, or to identify E a dealer.
291
08 TELEPHONE
 
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
=f "Telephone"
Primary page
x Call log x 06 06 06 06 06 S A V C- m > rhe PR & e e Pë < 1 2 3 el |S E S # x Contacts A x < > V Le Š ¢ ef ES FX S E fi @
Li >
v dl "2 dëi En Al
HIH
292
Level 1
Telephone
Call log
Telephone
Contacts
N
Ei
a
d ab
d
Level 2
All calls Incoming calls Outgoing calls
Contacts
Magnifying glass
Call
Addresses
Add contact
Navigate to
Search for contact
Call
Level 3
View
Create
New
Modify
Delete
Delete all
Search for contact
Confirm
Comments
After making choices, start the call.
After making choices, start the call.
293
294
08 TELEPHONE
Level 1 =( | "Telephone" > | Secondary page i V
 
x
Level 2
R || €!| s
Devices detected
Telephone options
v Joo Oo ff
x Bluetooth Connection menu A
K g g
Level 3
z
ery
Level 1 Telephone connection
Secondary page
Bluetooth Connection
Telephone conn ection
Secondary page
Search for devices
Telephone connection
Secondary page
Telephone Options
Ên
Level 2 Level 3
Search Disconnect Update Delete
Confirm
PS Telephone
Devices detected DS Audio streaming
œ Iniemet
Put on hold
Update
Ringtones
Memory info.
Confirm
Comments
Start the search for another peripheral device to connect.
Stop the Bluetooth connection to the selected peripheral device.
Import the contacts from the selected telephone to store them in the audio system.
Delete the selected telephone.
Save the settings.
Start the search for peripheral devices
Cut the microphone temporarily so that the contact cannot hear your conversation with a passenger.
Import the contacts from the selected telephone to save then in the audio system.
Choose the telephone ringtone and volume.
Contact records used and free, percentage of storage space used by internal contacts and Bluetooth contacts.
Save the settings.
295
296
08 BLUETOOTH
Pairing a Bluetooth telephone First connection
Procedure (short) from the telephone
In the Bluetooth menu of your device, select the system name in the list of devices detected.
Enter a code of at least 4 figures in the device and confirm.
Enter this same code in the system, select "OK" and confirm.
Procedure from the system
Activate the telephone's Bluetooth function and ensure that it is "visible to all" (telephone configuration).
Press on Telephone to display the primary page then go to the secondary page.
Select "Bluetooth Connection".
 
 
 
For reasons of safety and because they require prolonged attention on the part of the driver, the operations for pairing the Bluetooth mobile telephone to the hands-free system of the audio system must be carried out with the vehicle stationary.
Select Search. 2 The list of telephones detected is displayed. Se
If the telephone is not detected, it is recommended that you switch the Bluetooth function on your telephone off and then on again.
 
A| 3® Ø iPhone 3G
Select the name of the desired peripheral from the list and Confirm.
Enter a code of at least 4 figures for the VY connection then "Confirm".
Enter this same code in the telephone then accept the connection.
 
The system offers to connect the telephone: - in "Telephone" (hands-free kit, telephone only),
- in "Audio streaming" (streaming: wireless playing of audio files from the telephone),
- in "Internet" (internet browsing, only if your telephone is compatible with the "DUN" Dial-Up Networking Bluetooth standard).
Select one or more profiles and Confirm.
10
08 BLUETOOTH
The services available depend on the network, the SIM card and the compatibility of the Bluetooth telephone used. Check the telephone manual and with your network provider for details of the services available to you.
The ability of the system to connect with only one profile depends on the telephone. The two profiles may both connect by default.
Visit www.citroen.co.uk for more information (compatibility, additional help, ...).
 
A|%@ 0^ iPhone 3G
The telephone is added to the list. |
Depending on your telephone, you may be asked to accept automatic connection every time the ignition is switched on.
Depending on the type of telephone, the system will ask you to accept or not the transfer of your
contacts. LE ©
If not, select "Update".
On return to the vehicle, the last telephone connected automatically reconnects, within around 30 seconds after switching on the ignition (Bluetooth activated).
To modify the automatic connection mode, select the telephone in the list then select the desired profile.
Connecting a Bluetooth peripheral
Automatic reconnection
On switching on the ignition, the telephone connected when the ignition was last switched off is automatically reconnected, if this connection mode had been activated during the pairing procedure
(see previous pages).
The connection is confirmed by the display of a message and the name of the telephone.
Manual connection
Press on Telephone to display the primary page then go to the secondary page.
Select "Bluetooth" to display the list of paired peripherals.
Select the peripheral to connect.
Press on "Search".
The connection is confirmed by the display of a message and the name of the telephone.
A|% iPhone 3G | Al |
om
5] $
Pi Ø iPhone 3G A|} iPhone 3G | Al |
297
298
08 BLUETOOTH
Managing paired telephones
This function allows the connection or disconnection of a peripheral device as well as the deletion of a pairing.
Press on Telephone to display the primary = ( | > | 2a
page then go to the secondary page.
Select "Bluetooth" to display the list of paired 2b peripheral devices.
A|%#@® øO iPhone 3G
    
Select the peripheral in the list.
Select: JS $ X
- "Search" or "Disconnect" to connect or disconnect the Bluetooth connection with the peripheral selected.
- "Delete" to remove the pairing. 3
Receiving a call
An incoming call is announced by a ring and a superimposed display in the screen.
 
Make a short press on the steering mounted SRC
TEL button to accept an incoming call. ea SRC Jie
Make a long press on the steering mounted os +2's
TEL button to reject the call.
or
Select "End call".
08 CONTACTS
Making a call
Calling a new number
Press on Telephone to display the primary page.
Enter the phone number using the keypad then "Call" to start the call.
om
Use of the telephone is not recommended while driving. We recommended that you park safely or make use of the steering mounted controls.
Calling a contact
Press on Telephone to display the primary
om
page. Or make a long press on the steering SRC mounted TEL button. a
 
Select "Contacts". jah i
 
Select the desired contact from the list offered.
Select "Call". l
299
300
08 CALL LOG
Calling a recently used number
Press on Telephone to display the primary = ( page. = Select "Call log". ( f
 
Select the desired contact from the list offered. |
It is always possible to make a call directly from the telephone; park the vehicle first as a safety measure.
Ending a call
la Select "End call". or ib Make a long press on the steering mounted TEL button.
oa SRC mie = 2s
 
08 SETTINGS
Ringtones
Press on Telephone to display the primary = ( | > |
page then go to the secondary page.
Select "Telephone Options". ell
Select "Ringtones". l D
You can select the ringtone used and adjust its volume.
Select "Confirm". VY
Managing contacts / Entries
Press on Telephone to display the primary page.
Select "Contacts".
Select "Add contact".
Select:
- "New" to add a new contact.
- "Modify" to edit the selected contact.
- "Delete" to delete the selected contact.
- "Delete all" to delete all of the information for the selected contact.
Select "Directory information" for the number of entries used, available, ...
a
301
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
 
The following table groups together the answers to the most frequently asked questions concerning your audio system.
QUESTION
The route calculation is not successful.
| am unable to enter my post code.
The POls do not appear.
The risk areas audible warning does not work.
The system does not suggest a detour around an incident on the route.
| receive a Risk area alert which is not on my route.
302
ANSWER
Navigation, guidance
The guidance criteria may conflict with the current location (exclusion of
toll roads on a toll motorway).
The system only accepts post codes of up to 5 characters.
The POls have not been selected.
The audible warning is not active.
The guidance criteria do not take account of TMC messages.
Other than guidance, the system announces all Risk areas positioned in a cone located in front of the vehicle. It may provide an alert for a Risk area located on nearby or parallel roads.
SOLUTION
Check the guidance criteria on the Navigation Menu, "Guidance options"\ "Define calculation criteria".
Select the POls in the list of POls.
Activate audible warnings in the Guidance options
menu, "Navigation - guidance", "Set parameters for risk areas”.
Select the "Traffic info" function in the list of guidance criteria.
Zoom in on the map to view the exact position of the Risk area. Select "On the route" to no longer receive alerts other than guidance or to reduce the time for the announcement.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
 
QUESTION
Certain traffic jams along the route are not indicated in real time.
The altitude is not displayed.
| cannot connect my Bluetooth telephone.
The volume of the telephone connected in Bluetooth mode is inaudible.
ANSWER
On starting, it is several minutes before the system begins to receive the traffic information.
The filters are too restrictive.
In certain countries, only major routes (motorways...) are listed for the traffic information.
On starting, the initialisation of the GPS may take up to 3 minutes to
receive more than 4 satellites correctly.
Depending on the geographical environment (tunnel...) or the weather, the conditions of reception of the GPS signal may vary.
Telephone, Bluetooth
The telephone's Bluetooth function may be switched off or the telephone may not be visible.
The Bluetooth telephone is not compatible with the system.
The volume depends both on the system and on the telephone.
The ambient noise level has an influence on the quality of telephone communication.
SOLUTION
Wait until the traffic information is being received correctly (display of the traffic information icons on the map).
Modify the "Geographic filter" settings.
This phenomenon is normal. The system is dependent on the traffic information available.
Wait until the system has started up completely. Check that there is a GPS coverage of at least 4 satellites (long press on the SETUP button, then select "GPS coverage").
This phenomenon is normal. The system is dependent on the GPS signal reception conditions.
- Check that your telephone's Bluetooth function is switched on.
- Check in the telephone settings that it is "visible to all".
You can check the compatibility of your telephone at www.citroen.co.uk (services).
Increase the volume of the audio system, to maximum if required, and increase the volume of the telephone if necessary.
Reduce the ambient noise level (close the windows, reduce the booster fan speed, slow down, ...).
303
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
 
QUESTION
Some contacts are duplicated in the list.
Contacts are not shown in alphabetical order.
The system does not receive SMS text messages.
The CD is ejected automatically or is not played by the player.
There is a long waiting period following the insertion of a CD or connection of a USB memory stick.
The CD player sound is poor.
304
ANSWER The options for synchronizing contacts are synchronizing the contacts
on the SIM card, the contacts on the telephone, or both. When both synchronizations are selected, some contacts may be duplicated.
Some telephones offer display options. Depending on the settings chosen, contacts can be transferred in a specific order.
The Bluetooth mode does not permit sending SMS text messages to the system.
CD, MP3
The CD is inserted upside down, is unplayable, does not contain any audio data or contains an audio format which the player cannot play.
The CD has been recorded in a format that is not compatible with the player (ud, ...).
The CD is protected by an anti-pirating protection system which is not recognised by the audio system.
When a new medium is inserted, the system reads a certain amount of data (directory, title, artist, etc.). This may take from a few seconds to a few minutes.
The CD used is scratched or of poor quality.
The audio equipment settings (bass, treble, ambiences) are unsuitable.
SOLUTION
Select "Display SIM card contacts" or "Display telephone contacts".
Modify the display setting in the telephone directory.
- Check that the CD is inserted in the player the right way up.
- — Check the condition of the CD: the CD cannot be played if it is too damaged.
- — Check the content in the case of a recorded CD: refer to the advice in the "AUDIO" section.
- The audio system's CD player does not play DVDs.
- Some recorded CDs will not be played by the audio system because they are not of the correct quality.
This phenomenon is normal.
Insert good quality CDs and store them in suitable conditions.
Set the treble or bass level to 0, without selecting an ambience.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
 
QUESTION
Some characters in the media information are not displayed correctly while playing.
Playing of streaming files does not start.
The names of tracks and the track length are not displayed on the screen when streaming audio.
The quality of reception of the radio station listened to gradually deteriorates or the stored stations do not function (no sound, 87.5 Mhz is displayed...).
| cannot find some radio stations in the list of stations received.
The name of the radio station changes.
ANSWER
The audio system does not display some types of characters.
The peripheral device connected does not support automatic play.
The Bluetooth profile does not allow the transfer of this information.
Radio
The vehicle is too far from the transmitter used by the station listened to or there is no transmitter in the geographical area through which the vehicle is travelling.
The environment (hills, buildings, tunnels, basement car parks...) block reception, including in RDS mode.
The aerial is absent or has been damaged (for example when going through a car wash or into an underground car park).
The station is not received or its name has changed in the list.
Some radio stations send other information in place of their name (the title of the song for example).
The system interprets this information as the name of the station.
SOLUTION
Use standard characters to name tracks and folders.
Start the playback from the device.
Activate the "RDS" function by means of the short-cut menu to enable the system to check whether there is a more powerful transmitter in the geographical area.
This phenomenon is normal and does not indicate a fault with the audio system.
Have the aerial checked by a CITROEN dealer.
305
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
 
QUESTION
In changing the setting of treble and bass the equalizer setting is deselected.
In changing the equalizer setting, treble and bass return to zero.
When changing the balance settings, the distribution setting is deselected.
When changing an distribution setting, the balance setting is deselected.
There is a difference in sound quality between the different audio sources (radio, CD...).
306
ANSWER Settings, configuration
The selection of an equalizer setting imposes the balance settings. Modifying one without the other is not possible.
The selection of a distribution setting imposes the balance settings. Modifying one without the other is not possible.
For optimum sound quality, the audio settings for Volume, Bass, Treble, Equalizer and Loudness can be adapted to the different sound sources, which may result in audible differences when changing source (radio, CD...).
SOLUTION
Modify the balance or equalizer settings to obtain the desired musical ambience.
Modify the balance or distribution settings to obtain the desired musical ambience.
Check that the audio settings for (Volume, Bass, Treble, Equalizer, Loudness) are adapted to
the sources listened to. It is advisable to set the AUDIO functions (Bass, Treble, Fr-Re balance, Le-Ri balance) to the middle position, select the "None", musical ambience and set the loudness correction to the "Active" position in CD mode or to the "Inactive" position in radio mode.
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
 
QUESTION
With the engine off, the system switches off after a few minutes of use.
Playback of my USB memory stick starts only after a very long wait (around 2 to 3 minutes).
When | connect my iPhone as telephone and to the USB port at the same time, | am unable to play the music files.
ANSWER
When the engine is switched off, the system's operating time depends on the battery charge.
The switch-off is normal: the system switches to economy mode and switches off to prevent discharging of the vehicle's battery.
USB, portable player, connection key
Some files supplied with the memory stick may greatly slow down access to reading the memory stick (multiplication by 10 of the catalogue time).
When the iPhone connects automatically as a telephone, it forces the streaming function. The streaming function takes the place of the USB function which is then not useable, there is a period without sound of the track being played with Apple® players.
SOLUTION
Start the vehicle's engine to increase the battery charge.
Delete the files supplied with the memory stick and limit the number of sub-folders in the file structure on the memory stick.
Disconnect and reconnect to the USB port (the USB function takes priority over streaming).
307
 
Exterior
Remote control key
- locking / unlocking the vehicle
- locating the vehicle
- anti-theft protection
- battery
Lighting control stalk Guide-me-home lighting Daytime running lamps Headlamp beam adjustment Cornering lighting
Changing bulbs
- front lamps - foglamps
- direction indicator repeaters
Door mirrors
Doors
- opening / closing - emergency control Central locking
AIRBUMP® protectors
47-50
113-119 119 118 120 121 188-192
62
52-53
51
216
Glass panoramic sunroof 126 Roof bars 213-214 Accessories 217-218 Electronic stability programme 134 ESC: ABS, EBFD, ASR, DSC 134-136 Under-inflation detection 131-133 Tyre pressures 233 Temporary puncture repair kit 174-180 Changing a wheel 181-186 - tools - removing / refitting Snow chains 187
Visual search
Wiper control stalk Changing a wiper blade
Boot - opening / closing - emergency release
Park Assist Reversing camera Parking sensors Towbar
Towing
Changing bulbs
- rear lamps
- 3 brake lamp
- number plate lamps
Fuel tank, misfuel prevention (Diesel) Running out of Diesel fuel
122-125 125, 208
54
108-112
107 105-106 211-212 209-210
193-194
161-164 165
Visual search Interior
Boot fittings 83-84 - rear parcel shelf
- hook
- storage well
- luggage net (accessory)
- luggage net securing
rings Boot lamp 128 Warning triangle 85 AdBlue® tank 171-173 Rear seats 60-61 Rear door windows 56 Child seats 146-154, 159 ISOFIX child seats 155-157 i-Size child seats 158
Manual child lock 160
Front seats Heated seats
Seat belts
57-58 59
137-139
Front electric windows
55
Airbags 140-145
Interior fittings
- gun visor
- glove box
- 12 V accessory socket
- USB port(s) / Auxiliary socket - front armrest
- coat hooks
Mats
Deactivating the passenger's front airbag
77-81
82
141
Visual search
Instruments and controls
Courtesy lamp 127 Rear view mirror 63 Emergency or assistance call 130, 236 Touch screen tablet 37-42, 237-307 Setting the date/time 46 tech uses 196-200 Brightness of instruments 128 Heating, ventilation 65-68 Manual air conditioning 69-70 Automatic air conditioning 71-74 Door mirrors 62 Front electric windows 55 Glove box 79 USB port(s) / Auxiliary socket 80 Opening the bonnet 220 5-speed manual gearbox 88 12 V accessory socket 77-79 Gear shift indicator 89 USB port(s) / Auxiliary socket 77-78, 80 Electronic gearbox 90-93 Parking brake 87 Hill start assist 94
Stop & Start 95-97
Visual search
Instruments and controls (cont.)
Lighting control stalk 113-119 Automatic illumination of headlamps 117 Direction indicators 129 Headlamp beam adjustment 120 Dashboard fuses 196-200
Instrument panels Warning lamps
Service indicator Engine oil level indicator Gear shift indicator Distance recorders
Speed limiter Cruise control Memorising speeds
20 21-32 33-35
36
89
45
98-100 101-103 104
Electronic gearbox 90-93 Wiper control stalk 122-125 Trip computer 43-44 Front demist / defrost 75 Rear screen demist / defrost 76 Central locking 51 Park Assist 108-112 ESC 134-136 Hazard warning lamps 129
Starting - switching off the engine 86
Steering wheel adjustment 64 Horn 130
Maintenance - Technical data
Running out of fuel, Diesel 165 AdBlue® additive and SCR system
(Blue HDi Diesel) 166-173 Checking levels 223-225 - oil - brake fluid - coolant
- screenwash fluid - additive (Diesel with particle emissions filter)
Checking components 226-227 - battery
- air / passenger compartment filter
- oil filter
- particle emissions filter (Diesel) - brake pads / discs
Changing bulbs 188-195 - front lamps
- rear lamps
- — interior lighting
12V battery 203-206 Load reduction, economy mode 207 Engine compartment
fuses 196-197, 201-202 Opening the bonnet 220 Under the bonnet, petrol 221 Under the bonnet, Diesel 222 Petrol engines 228 Diesel engines 230
Petrol weights Diesel weights
Dimensions Identification markings
Visual search
229 231
232 233
314
Alphabetical index
ACcessorles 217 Accessory socket, 12V ........ccccssssssseeeeeeeees 77-79 Adäluen eee eeccccceeececeseeceeceeeeeeeeeeenseeeaeeeees 166 Addtive AdDäiue 28, 166 Adjusting bheadlampes AA 120 Adiustng beadrestramte 58 Adjusting the steering
MES cease A E E E A 64 Advice on care
and maintenance cc eeceeeeeeeeeeeee es 126, 227 Airbags csecsen rsin 24, 25, 30, 140 Airbags, GUEESE, sg sktëegugebeneeetegg teen 144, 145 AMDAGS ss (WOM ceccessatencctcesaastoniepeceacedsanasen 141, 145 lee CN E EE 143, 145 Airbag warmmmng Lamp. 24, 25 EE bet 216 All CONCIIONIAG cinivsecsccansiesanncdeaandaseesezmeannes 18, 70 Air conditioning, automatic ...............c008 66, 71 Air conditioning, manual ...............:.ccccceee 66, 69 Air detrbuton adiustment 67, 71 PU TUS EE 226 PMG TOW eet iaraa eaaa 18 Air Tlow adiustment 67, 71 KIECIENEEE eetteet ege ease Ee 69, 71 Air recirculation .....eseesenernernereennnnn 67, 69, 71 Air vents co cdiccdeccicstedncaleontneadiasteeniorsdicenionteetnesbars 65 Anti-theft Niger e 48 ANIM Sty TOIT ve. dccccsccchswatindedeaveacsinencdenss 77, 78, 81 Assistance call... 130, 235, 236 AUCIOIS WAITING Siccsicnsarssacsactianiaaxienestiankentnets 130 Audio cable been 258 Audio streammg (Bluetooth). 254, 257 Automatic illumination
of headlamps eegene e 114, 117 Automatic operation of hazard
Warning LAMPS irrin niian 129 Automatic rain sensitive
windecreen wiere... 122, 124 ROKY orae ae aE 254, 258
EEN Eeer EE 205 EA Eeer a 84 Eege 203, 205, 206, 226 Battery, CAN GUNG sxisiausceneniatannoannacteetienns etnies 206 Battery, remote Control ...........:..ccccceeesseeees 49, 50 Black screen ergeet 128 Blue HIDI arei 33, 166 Bluetooth (hande Tree... 296, 297 Bluetooth (elepbone) 296, 297 Pkten 220 Giele EE inianiineni innn a 220 Eeer 54, 83, 128 Se ue EE 128, 195 Brake EISE eeneg gEee dees 227 EIERE eegen 193 ERP AIRGAS ett 227 PS edn breenu tetanus eaincotnscictancdemmeentecinnaats 27, 227 Braking system warning
LAID eegene ARE 27
Gapacitv, Tue tank 161
D id case ca sese neh pect deme enibe nena aecuaeqess 254 CGD MP Jouinn ONARA 254 CSN itl all IOCKING ssstsuanscncedpeacsoaedeavauvessdivexicnwsanien: 48 Changing @ BUND vie sacscssspscestcenpaawaas 188, 193, 195 CLhangmg atuse 196, 198, 201 Changing a wheel ............:::::::::eees 181, 182 Changng a wiper blade 125, 208 CHANGING THE CALS a; ss sinssacctisaesorsanesteseesersaacnnnias 46 Changing the remote control
ANON Y steuceaceivscracats nap bentepcctueureearyy ioneevaa ne senutet 49 Ghangmg e me ee 46 Checking levels.............::::::::cceeeeeeeeeeees 223-225
Checking the engine oil level................ 36, 223 Checking tyre pressures
VEER tegen egenen 174 CHECKS ....ceccccscccccescccececseersees 221, 222, 226, 227 CCC IO CKaesdis cca cdecieaiectastvcawebeexencddasaeissidscdee 160 CHIIDrEN . oo... ee eeeeceeeceeeececeeeeneeeenees 153, 155-158 Child seats ..........cee 146-148, 152, 153, 159 CGhld eeate Conventional.. 152 Child seats, i-SIZC....... ee 158 CITROEN Localised
PSSISTANICE TE 236 CITROEN Localised
Emergency E leegen 236 CITROEN MULTICITY CONNECT............... 291 KE NEEN, ee ege 54 CIOSING THE GOGIS EE 52 Ee Eet 81 Gold clmateecreen.. cee cceseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenes 215 CGolour screen... reen 38, 238, 239 Connectors, AUGIO.... cece ceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneees 80 Coolant level ........cc cece eeccceese esse eeseeseeeeeeeenes 224 COGMENING: IAMS socccrncnnciaacentestsarastaatantonrsaaaass 121 Cruise CONTIO]........ cece ce cess esse eeeeeeee eee 101, 104 CUD Eeer 77, 78
DAB (Digital Audio Broadcasting) ........ 252, 253 Lenger saciscnreaanansrauatnentnaaandadan 46 Daytime running lampsS..............::0:005 114, 118 Lee ESP smicssiasnsantnnasinantannepesntenuananexs 136 Deactivating the passenger
AOG eera 141 DSM O SHINO eiscransitincrn nes tenn ceteasheeenitecraianineeneaen 75, 76
Defrosting, front esoe eebe dE 75 DEMISUNG seses aaa aiaa 75 Ketter, HEEN keEat eat 15 Diesel additive level. 225 Diesel engine pre-heat
SEET EE, geseet eeeegegteegch 23 Digital Audio Broadcasting
(EAE Vi cazecctetcanet oiien e eaea 252, 253 Dimensions eege eer 232 (Dpoped beam 113, 189 DIDSUCK oseese erei ana eT 36, 223 Direction indicators ....... 119, 129, 188, 190, 193 DOOI Sre E EA 52 Driver's seat belt not fastened
wanna lanp sisieun geg 138 Dynamic stability control
AE 25, 27, 136
ECO-GIriVING (AQVICE) .icc..sicevescdecedscverdsansadscneseses 18 ECONOMICAONIVING! eege ee 18 GEIER gg AEN 207 Electric window
CONOIS asini reerdrenieseni onain aa r ETE RETo iiia 55 Elechrontc engine mmmobilser, 48, 50 EISCIONIC GORI DOX ics scisessnariiciavnacitesaniaesanoiness 206 Electronic gearbox system .............. 18, 95, 227 Electronic stability control
1a E EA A E 134 Emergency boot release... 54 Emergency Call .............::cscccceeeeees 130, 235, 236 Emergency warning
Etan o eccc E A E EE 85, 129
Emissions control system,
eebe 29 Energy economv mode... 207 Engine compartment 221, 222 Engine compartment
TUS COOK cmias susaconronsnsetst;aeraniessutasrasianmesnnmiannes 201 Engine, Diesel........ 23, 164, 165, 222, 230, 231 ENING OU ainiaan aa 223 Engine oil level
VCS ANON, vcs ege 36, 223 Engmne, peirol. 164, 221, 228, 229 GING S coca testi ertxeaceecenarsaatecccsanssuneiabingas 228, 230 EMIVIFOTUMICING 2 gegdeo dees ageet ae 18, 50 Eoupment settnge 37, 39, 41 ESO ASR EE 134
Filling with fuel ........ eee 161, 163, 164 Fitting a WHEEL... EEN 183 Fitting roof Dal Seniesa 213 Fittings, bOOt e taneds cnauedunceteqncaitaaceatetteestesc 83 FIASHING INGICATONS x sccansevaceensconents 119, 129, 190 Foglamps; reãf urisini annsan 115 Freouencv (radio). 249, 251 Front Toglampes 115, 121, 188, 191 Front Sali een eege 57 PG aeina eiie A ER cite 18, 164 UE GEES OM seisiassaxsnatincnicrisbicutcendeaneescease 18 UC (UE ena ea E 161 Fuel Tiler "ap... 161, 163 EE 161 FUG] tAnk..... eee eccceccecseeesseeeeeeeeeeeneeeaees 161, 163 FUSO Gorse E 196, 198, 201
Alphabetical index
G
Gearbox, electronic .............. 32, 78, 81, 90, 227 Gearbox, manual ............ 18, 77, 81, 88, 95, 227 Gear efficiency Ipndicator. 89 Gear lever ccecceccc cess ceeeeseeeeueeeeeeeeeeeueeeaess 18 Gear ever, manual oearbos 88 Ee CN e EE 77-79 GUIDANCE... cece ccc ecceeccc cece ceueeeeeseueeeeeeueeeaeenes 273
Hande freekrt. ec eeccecce eee eeeeeeeenes 296, 297 Hazard warmmg lompe 85, 129 Head restraints, front... ccc ecee eee eeeee ene ees 58 Head resirainte rear... ccceccceeseceeeeseeeee ensues 61 Heated eeate cccceccecsccesseceeeeeeeeeueeeaueeeeneaes 59 KEE cadet sires susnana tie didndesndmncntcsaatantatte 18, 67, 69 Height adjustment,
Sieering wee! A 64 wl UR eg E skies 94
Identification olates cesses 233 FEIER anani 74, 86 Indicatore drechon cece ee eee 129, 190 Inflating accessories
(using the kit) ose seca decetcsavetcancecustehateesacsezens 174 Ile TYT CS eene 18 INSIUMENE DANE] ssitsicisservsaverssannendastesteiaceceandans 20 Instrumente and controls AAA EEN 8
316
Alphabetical index
Inierachve bein... 37, 41 intenor MNOS eege 77-79 OLEH OF VAM sisssssesdcessicawetstavernoteancastnias 127, 195 ISORIX Child G6 ANS si. sovnssanarnceacecaiontonenaans 155-158 ISOFIX MOUNN eaan ani 155
Jack casimaieocadtancteupiabientieiieidateneutieed 181, 182, 258 NEE EE Ee 258 JACK socket 80, 258 Jukebox (playing) cavzoseessavcessesensanvevecsansctienives: 259
Keepnmng children saie 141, 146-148,
153; 155-159 Key in non warming.... e 86 Key with remote control ............:::0008 47, 48, 50
Labels, denttication.. ees 233 Lamps, warning and
EEN eege A LED daytime running
lamps erxnctneotnasameasioniorseyaasrsnnatenmassadns 188, 189
LEDs - Light-emitting
DEIER eege cece 118 Level, Adäluep addtive 166 Level, brake fluid... cece cc eecee ees eeeeeeeeeees 224 Levels and checks 221-225 Light-emitting diodes - LEDs................. 118, 195 Lighting bulbs (replacement) ................ 188, 193 Lighting control talk... 113, 114, 119 Lighting CUNUIMICD sacasscrcnventsecennestenastsenteitedeovant: 128 Liobtng, oude-me home 119 KOCH, (REI äeren 127 Lighting on remmder AAA 116 LOSGI senie i aa a 18 LOA FEGUCHON MOUS issiiscssecsccsctsnstoreennadsnads 207 Locating vourvebucle AAA AER 48 LOCKING HOM ThE INSTA S sscsscdnccictrinsteevanwsarencene 51 Locking the doors cacucsssssaiweteceateacdancdeenecnain 51,53
Main beam „.ssesessssosssseersnrsrrsrrnnn. 113, 188, 190 Mamterapnge eougegtuNDeeEeteeNN NEESS gees 18 Map readmg Ioamps EEN 127 Markumgs, wdentttcaton... 233 E EE 77, 78, 82 MenU nanesene 242, 244, 246, 260, 262,
264, 280, 292, 294 Menus (audio) ............. 242, 244, 246, 260, 262,
264, 280, 292, 294 Menus (Touch screen tablet)............ 37, 38, 238 Mini fuel eye! cc eeee cess esse eeeeeeneees 161 Mirror, FEAr VICW .....c. cee cceccceceeeseeeseeeeueeeaeeeeeeeaes 63 Mirrors, e EE 62 Misfuel Goreventon. AAA EEN 163
Motorway function
Lellgen E le let e 129 Mountings for ISOFIX Eeer ion a i a a an E 155
Number plate Jomps AANEREN 194
OU ca E 226 E Jee ege 36, 223 Opening he bonnet 220 Opening the boot se ciicsncessencsteacestececssesniveeseensens 54 Opening the COOMs ............cccccccseeeseseeeeeeeeeennnees 52 Operation indicator Joampe 22, 25
Paint colour code EE 233 Panoramic glass SUMIOOT sesisccssceasnantiouesevstixes 126 Parcel SHG, TEAM ...cecccasccccocstccavesseccsidazedetsvntsss 84 Park Aeelst 108 P AIKING DL AKG sidactacnnssstcaivainecinsantsinnianadans 87, 227 Eelere 119 Parking sensors, front... 106
Harking sensore, rezatr.... 105 Dartcle emission flter 220, 224-226 Passenger compartment filter ................08 226 P eee raaa a e EE EEA ERE E EEEREN 47, 48 Port, USB EE 77, 78, 80 Preheater, Diesel. ec cceceeeee cess esse een eeees 23 Priming the fuel system AAA 165 Hrotectmg children... 141, 146-148,
153, 155-159 EENEG ege 216 FF CN CUI co Acetic caatesgectiectateeadine seston neues 174
RACIO aee s 248-250, 254 Radio station... 248, 249, 251 Eeer 251 Hear door windows EE 56 beet JOER sasiccsaxescegvacasvpscharnaceasssicaee 115: 193 Hear screen (demistng). 76 Recharging the battery .............: cece 206 Reduction of electrical load...............::000 207 Regeneration of the particle
emlssions Tlier. cece ceeesseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 226 Reinitialising the remote control.................006 49 Remote contra). 47, 48, 50 Removable screen
SEET eege 215 Hemoving a wee! A 183 REMOVING TAG MAL sascsciesacisnencectinecesysestapncennins 82 Hepar kt. punchure.. EEN 174 FSDIACING: DUIDS i icitatestscssesseszuceucevericesees 188, 193 Hepnlacng Tuses A 196, 198 Replacing the air filter......... ee eeeeeeeeeeeeees 226 Replacing the oil filter 0.0... EEN 226
Replacing the passenger
GEHEESCHT HESE cicsissincassisvassaetasieseneienays 226 Heplacing wiper blades 125, 208 Hesettmg e service Imdcator 35 Resetting the trip recorder..............:::::::0e 45 SEL tee 107 FOVENSING Lu e ME 193 Hiek areas (update... 269 EIERE 213 Routine checke cccecceeeeeeeeeeeeseeeenes 226, 227 Running out of fuel (Diesel) ............. eee 165
Gateiv Tor children... 14, 160 Screen men... 242, 244, 246, 260, 262, 264, 280, 292, 294
Screen menu map................ 242, 244, 246, 260, 262, 264, 280, 292, 294
Gcreenmwaeh Tlud eye. ness 225 Screenwash, front... cece cseeesseeeeeeeeeeeaes 123 SCreeNn-wash IreEServoOll ........ccccceeceeeeeseeeeeeeeees 225 SCR (Selective Catalytic Reduction)............ 166 EE eege 166 SCal AGHUSUMON seciacisciwnavandinnsiesnianerdienvapicenotes 57 Seat DEUS sccacassccsvacsanoxacnaaceatandeccdades 137-139, 152 eat Delt warmmg Joamp 138 Geat rear bench ccc ceecceecseeeeeeeeeeeeuenenees 60 Serial number, vehicle ....asssssssssessnssnnsnnernenns 233 aptvicelngiesateor .esetRRREENSNEEKERRSRNE EN 33 Gervice warming Ioaht 26 SEENEN 18 Setting the CHOCK asicccannssaassaemaswiidiiaeiexeatzantias 46 Gidelamps 113, 118, 119, 188, 189, 193 Side repeater tege ergeet 192
Alphabetical index
DMOW CHAINS eessen eebe 187 Spare WNCE cicsdecsadesissancarcatinnasvaneansndvicen 181, 182 Speed liMiIter .......... cc ccccccssesesseeeeeeeeeeneeees 98, 104 RN een a E 205 Starting fbevehce 86, 90 Gteerng mounted controle 241 Stopping the vehicle .....assnosnnaaneeneenennennnn 86, 90 SO STA e 44, 75, 95, 97, 108,
161, 203, 220, 226 ele e a iat depot recat Sa aanncapentaaseadcetaneeetacsat: 79, 81 Storing a SNC guest enges deeër 104 UI VIS OF e Eege 77-79 Synchronising the remote control.................. 49 Gvntbesiser, voice... 279 System EE 288
Table of weghts 229, 231 Tables of engnes 228, 230 Tables of fUSeS a...an. 196, 198, 201 Tank. Adäluepn addtive 166, 171 WI TG |. EE 163 Technical data... 228-231 Telephone 296-299, 301 Temperature adiusiment. 67, 71 Temperature control for heated seats ............ 59 Temporarv Ivrerepairkt, 84, 174 Third DFAKe 1AM D wxsitssiectrastarnassiasisie 194 TMC reegen geneisst 274 JEE teste 174, 181, 182 Total distance recorder ccecce 45 Touch screen... 237, 239 Touch screen table. 39, 41 Touch screen tablet (Menus) ....... 37-39, 41, 238
317
318
Alphabetical index
dE gege REEE REEERE 211 Towed loade 229, 231 Towing another vehicle.............::cc0ccccee 209, 210 TOWING EE eege eegen 84 Uerteeler el E 25, 27 Traffic information (TA) ssiisseviccissservaevereeoidesa 275 Traffic mtormaton (IMC, 274, 275 EE ebe 211 THD COMPUTCD rioaren 43, 44 Trip distance recorder. EE 45 TIvrepreseures ee eeeeeeeeeeees 175, 180, 233 TVO ee AAE 18 Tyre under-inflation
detection vec ivcarcssncencpancsciensnce 32, 131, 133, 180
Under floor storage GeuseeegeraeCgE eg Zeene sten 84 Under-mmflatton (detechon) 131 LIONS eases tencainesteanentamtontonentnaaasteeseennesties 47 LUnlockmg from fe made 51 Unlocking the DOOtaicssisiioinosienainasiaas 47 Unlocking the doors 47,51, 53 Update risk Al CAS See eebe e 269 WP AATING TS Cale wrcctsacencentcassnctriteaivaveavaaweiwness 46 Upodatng fe me... 46 UREA eo meres 166, 167 BE AET A P EN E A AT EA 254 USB Ply ot asi eae 254
V
Vehicle confguraton 3/7, 39, 41 Vehicle denttfcaton. cece eeeeeeeseeeeees 233 Ventilation deeg 65, 66, 69 NTS UU rese e e A E 75
Warning lamp, low fuel level. 30 EE eege 26 Warning lamp, SCR emissions control NEE 29 Wa FMiliG: (HANGS vinisansvstssessusaertesnessaesnnedta ses 84, 85 Washung (Gdvicel,. 227 Wash-wipe, reat.. 123 Eege 229, 231 WWIRGOW COMMONS eer Eegeregie 55 Wiper control stalk .............::cceeeeeeeees 122-124 ENEE EE eege 123 e 24, 122, 124
zans ¢ 9204 (00) 67000 NO4 000 LC O18 HOTU
` Aup1muëtg
or : aanus . med
DMS HABA O CLOT/SO/LI: OC
"mo paruro y2q aam VE OD JO sawas a [pe peUP SaAuEyaap “assodund sip Jog *SIPNIDILJI 9iP JUO OIPBI STBSS9,P SOLIS So] Sono} onb DE[IOP “Joyo 199 Y (<jqussod) yuawatponjusa9
paddy panpuns oipoy
STE 00E NA ISLA ¢ aanbijdde oippy ULON
SUVAR WEIER DULOD Ap pioar 0) 42p30 HE "0m120de OD 200 JO ASN DALDAYY sopqraseunuop
SAOUALAP aU! Sal JapAg g UOdEY ap ‘anbiyoayp~orpes asjoads np aovayya Hops
:panddo panmng D7
Ə Pu OL Liza: agnbyddy wyD au08N
Ayprquedwoo apurwa ay Supu uosioayoud yo swumuosnboy anbnipuseuros)sa49 p1iyiquedwios g| əurasuoa INnb eo ua UONIa}OId ap s9oussIXG : TT ET spo
paddo piopuwig GaS pda TLOT*ZTV/ O10T *1'V/ 600T *TTV/ 9007 *1-0S609 Na ` PND ddo INDII)? PIMNIJS IP INLON mag, sasn siy jo worpaagoad 9 Kajes
SANDIESYNIN SIP PUNIJS 19 MULES V| IP VONINOJJ : ET IPNY
“TOIVC(G66T MANARA atit ol parja: Sjuaniasimbas ponuassa aty tjin sandutos arogo pays ponposd ayy yoy; Afnaaa 2MSieeef AAI2A4p map SININUISSI SIIUIIXI XND JIDJSYVS snssap-19 g2uaI9{94 Japu 3) ənb 2402p
"Zäre 20 JO NLL P HUEN IAA juoursded : AAIVLVNSIS Nd ALIIVNAÒ LA WON
‘oupj2ap pup aipaymonyro 7 ‘audissnos af
suowoydde uses 04
ajiqourojny : onagad uouroyddy
sad
xOq onewa : adA
SMU OL
azau + CNS ` alt uoyeusiseg awtu putifj
ame moue anbe
` Apo aq Jo vonroymeapi
` LUDIOO4A 1d NOLLVOLMELLNAGI
Xej d ` zpdoaaat P1-S$6-Z0-6P-SO - 200udatal
ERWKAEE LINVYATISALVHD 10198 ETlObd al / PAON oLIsnpuy ouoz uosussry 2o1fw sssaippy ITHYVA LLONOVAW ` 2ESAIDM
IWUN UanT 2aEH : WON
RUNG 90m0 Suryoaney s, pnposd aip jo amey u! Si oym wosusd Zug 30 sanea ‘Joan ot nue) ANVdWOO
yie noue (Quowodinbs | ap pysseut 9] ans Ssrus By Op dpqusuodsar QuuOssdd No suteIEpULUT ‘UeDUIqQe]) |LAIOOS
LNIWdINO®T OIAVA V OL ALINYOANOD AO NOLLVYVIOIG (JOIS/6661 ILLPY ano2)
ANÒIALIAIAOIAVA LNAIWAMNOA NAA ALINAOANOD Ad NOILVAV TOIA
 
SHUOAIIT UOA SHunga paapasaid 3914 Zauiätsunty pusog
sampeu ay 104 30 Áq paudis
TTA dJ- ANN PHIAN q Pia a Eau panoan Apog poynon
suoreuuoyut Aseyuawayddng
DUBJI Aouanbo.y ZHIW 0001 ©} ZHW SZ P4F UE pase | (SO-Z10Z) VTA T-O7TZ OOF NA ((Z)¢ Wy) wnnseds aq 0} yustdinbs oipey ‘saotaep oBuesoys ) «= (SO-Z107Z) V'E'ZA I-OZZ OOC NA
ZH9 0p pue ZHY 6 Waq satouonba.ty uo Zunesado (MHS) saad
Suey Lime 10} SUONIPuO? IPIS if eg sayas pur puawidinba orpra 40) paepuws|  (8O-ZOOZ) (ri Cer LOE NA ((q) re uy) 3WaA (QW) Anpqnedwod spausewo.99q | (60-1107) T'6'TA tegt 10E NI
II ZIY + 6007 HIY (e) (De uY) JLS W MLH juaurdinbs ototaat got pm Alt In Aale ` 0107 "IN +9007 1-0609 NA
:pmepums Ip) Jo uonduasap o aLL ` "saat 7 spugtpugts porddy
"San AAIIEUAIOH Jo/pue spaepurjs Zumojjoj ay Vitan AHC ur si ONposd au 1
(D4/5/666 LD) PANDAIC ALLA Ap JO syusutastnbas yueaajau apo pur s}juaMarNbas perjuassa ay) YM APTULIOJUOS UI St Sayejas UOEBIEPDAp Sty) YoryAr OF
ES “ON [BIS "IPH om apiu j,
€IHd JI} WISUEL] [0.1309 9}0UI94 OIPEY
‘anpoud Surmoypjoy oun yeu AVyiqisuodsau ojos dy) JopuN ssejəap
A}IULIOJUO) JO VOHRIEPIG ALLYN
CO BPH Yey ejay
 
‘eds OWWaN 61-80-8007 0S6 10 SVL
ÞIS/6661 OLOZ LY + 6007 ‘LLY + 9007 :L-05609 N3
uoyesoqeT BunsaL
:anssi Jo 3O ‘(aameubis +) Aq ponouddy (asnjeubis +) Aq popdwo5
(O1) eueusA 82001 I OSE ‘Il SenueWwS `o e ‘sseuppy  wd's geen gauen :oweu sjuesddy
JePOW JUEUPA) YSOLSLY (jepow UIEW) YIOLGLY : ‘POW a3aap uPEJL “LNI JVSIYLGOL8} equinu souaiajoy
SJUsWAIINDa jeJə2u29 ip Yeg juawidinba ABojouyoa} uoneuuozul z0 Ayajyeg L-0S609 N3 14¥0d34u 1831
 
ang em E sg agnep cue 0s ONSON apenseed ege eummeguto cana cqepedd 5 “POAJOS SJE SSRILWOJUOS UOU BULAOHO) OUR J) PJEPUETS SILA LWA SoNdWOO JONPOId SUL
"eneen ISO] O} JURADJAI SJUSIWIOD JeUONIPpy
'Opopod Pp EIOS} SUOTEJUIUNIOOP EPU IPTU IPTS CUPO GEET Dë E AE E EE EA E EENEG
o EURO PZ EA EI LC emacei 1s Quueped ‘equates apeuomeu UOTE YP SULJU aJOIFLGDOD ONS JEP OYEJERYAIP OJEIS @ 5D OpPOsEW aguauodWco y Pnpod Ə} Jo JL A4 uI pəpnpul aq ieys sjuauodwos pasi jo suonesepap ssanpejnuew/suogesepap Ápuuojuoo 33/S8eIyyap 'pJepuns w'e YIM JUSUCTUOD aup 0 AUCH Ájuaa o} sanpenuew zanpoud Jo Aypqrsuodseu s y FSL aqe ur parsi psepues u} Asges o} uogdwnsasd əy} uan sı y pue uogers!5aj jeuogeu aqesydde ou) uw Aywuojuos ui sanpejnuetw sy Aq PesePep Useq Sey yUSUOdWOO peyeW 35 SUL SJUBLUILUO*) JB1BUaS
(japow wUBUPA) YAO0LGLY (SO Eu) eg lef" aP GULI L
ONSS! O 3309 LLOZ "Lë een AVSAULEILSSL
 
LYOd3y 1S31 ~ PS
JYS4H1991884 ON Lian Sal
 
LZ Jo z abed
This handbook describes all of the equipment available in the whole range.
Your vehicle will be fitted with some of this equipment described in this document, depending on its trim level, version and the specification for the country in which it is sold.
The descriptions and illustrations are given without any obligation. Automobiles CITROEN reserves
the right to modify the technical specifications, equipment and accessories without having to update this edition of the handbook.
This document is an integral part of your vehicle. It should be passed on to the new user in the event of sale or transfer.
Automobiles CITROEN Siége social : 6 rue Fructidor - 75835 Paris Cedex 17 - France TEL. : +33 (0) 158 79 79 79 - www.citroén.fr
S.A. au capital de 159 000 000 € - R.C.S. Paris 642 050 199 - Siret 642 050 199 00990 - APE 741 J
Automobiles CITROEN declares, by application
of the provisions of the European regulation (Directive 2000/53) relating to End of Life Vehicles, that it achieves the objectives set by this regulation and that recycled materials are used in the manufacture of the products that it sells.
Reproduction or translation of all or part of this handbook is prohibited without written authorisation from Automobiles CITROEN.
For any work on your vehicle, use a qualified workshop that has the technical information, competence and equipment required, which
a CITROEN dealer is able to provide. Printed in the EU
Anglais 03-14 vec WORLD RALLY CHAMPION gy WORLD RALLY einige ee aoe ee ` SEBASTIEN LER GC XESSCEN
 
14C4C.0040 Anglais
2014 — DOCUMENTATION DE BORD ADconcept
Diadeis
Entagos
CREATIVE TECHNOLOGIE
CITROËN
 
